I
;
THE DELAWARE GAZETTE.
SA fÜ'RDAjf, DECEMBER • 3, f809.
WILMINGTON,
VOL. L]
NO 4^
Printed and Published
\ Jdn Wednesdays and Saturdays ,
BY JOSEPH JONES,
[ Market street, a few doors above the B»nk of
t Delaware.
CONDITIONS.
The DEt.AvrA.nE Gazette shall be published
Li
every Wednesday and Saturday, on a large folio
K sheet. «
Hn. The price shall be voua DOM. ars per annum,
S exclusive of postage, payable half-yearly in advance.
a shorter
pill. No subscription will be received for
S period than one year.
hv. Subscribers shall have the riglst of discontinuing
r tlieir subscription at the end of a year from the
f time of their subscribing, by paying what may be
due, and giving notice of their intention.
'V. Advertisements, not exceeding sixteen lines, will
dollar, and for every
be inserted four times for
subsequent insertion twenty cents—longer ones in
the same proportion i but a reasonable discount
will be made in favor of those who advertise by the
year, half-year, or quarter.
VI. All articles of a personal or private nature will,
be charged as advertisements, and must be paid
for before insertion.
VII. Advertisements, notices, &c. of all religious
and charitable institutions, within the state of De
laware, shall be conspicuously inserted gratis.
(£j- The postage must be paid on all letters and
communications addressed to the Editor, through the
medium of the Post-Office, or they will not be re
ceived.
TO BE RENTED,
or before the 2.5M of
And possession given
on
March next ,
LL that valuable property formerly occupied
A
Hy Col. Thomas Duff, Esq. in the village
of Newport—consisting of a large commodious
brick dwelling-house, pleasantly situated on the
main street and elygantiy fronting the 1 '
ei
Christiana, well calculated for a large store, and
as the Turnpike road leading from tue Gap Ta
Lancaster to that place is now in consi.
vern or
deruble forwardness, and will probably be car
rieefinto effect in the course of the next sum
mer, it will certainly be one of the most eligible
spots for business in the state of Delaware. It
has «very convenience, such as a good garden,
barn, stabling and other houses, See. &c—A
handsome FARM of excellent land, contiguous
<0 the town, will be let with it, and two or
three Lots in the vicinity theieof, well adapted
for grass, or as the renter may think proper to
apply them. There are also eight acres of first
rate Marsh, now in good order, a small distance
from the town. The terms of renting said pro
perty may be known by applying to THOMAS
DUFF, Esquire, residing at Mrs. Huggins's,
Wilmington.
N. B.- —No part of this propel^ will let be
separate from the other.
Wilmington, Dec, 8th, 1 80;).
tf:
Lt the Court of Chancery.
Thomas Robinson, surviving ex'or.
of Abraham Robinson, dec'd.
vs.
James McIIvain and Mary bis
wife, and Thomas Perkins and
Sarali his wife.
I N the Court of Chancery of the state of Del
aware, held at New-Castle, for the county of
Bill filed Feb, 10th, 1S08 —Sut
New-Castle
poena issued, Ac.
Upon the petition of the complainant Thomas
Robinson, and upon the affidavit of Francis
Haugbey, esq. late sheriff of New-Castle coun
ty, it is ordered by the Chitiicellor, this thirtieth
day of November, in the year of our Lord out
thousand eight hundred and nine, that James
McIIvain and Mary bis wife, two of the defen
dants in the said bill of complaint, do appear in
this Court on Saturday the tenth day of March
next, to the said bill of complaint, and on fail
ure so to do, that the said bill be taken pro
canfcsso.
NICHOLAS RIDGELY,
Chancellor.
New-Castle County, ss.
I DO CERTIFY, That the above
is a true extract from the record thereof,
Gi
ven undci my hand and the seal of the said
Court, at New-Castle, this fifth day of Decem
ber, a. d. isoy.
HUGH W. RITCHIE,
Reg'r. in Cb'ry. for N. C. County.
Notice is hereby given,
FT1HAT on the 24-th instant, at the house of
JL John Crow, in the town of New-Castle,
Will be received, proposals in writing for renting
the Newport Ferry. The person or persons
[who may be desirous of renting the same will at
[the same time produce 011 engagement, in wti
(ting, from one or more persons, who shall be
engaged to be bound for the rout that may be
offered, ;
i alto for the faithful performance ot
m
Ihc sever
duties required ot the keeper by law.
John Crow.
!
'/iichariah De
.1
Cotn'rs.
on,
Joint Lviv
IV
LV. en
t24dec.
'j Sv?'?
«
fâortrp.
From the Maryland Herald,
THE MANIAC.
BY A LADY.
When the clear water» glow in the bushts of even,
On the cliff ef the ocean where murmars the breeze,
I he maniac hail* the pure breathings of heaven,
That bear her wild notes o'er the whispering seas.
They charm the lone spirit that watches the cave,
Prepar'd for her home in the wratli of the storm,
tVlien it rush'd in its strength from the maddening
wave,
And tore the proud rock to shelter her form.
Beneath its rude arch till the dawning of morn,
Fearless, child of distraction, she lingers alone,
While the wind on her locks waves the <lew from the
thorn,
When she pillows her head on the cold mossy stone.
No voice thrilling soft through her labouring breast,
Hails in accents of joy the wanderer home :
No kind melting sound bids her wild spirit rest.
When the cold howling blast her heart pulses be
numb.
But she hears in her dwelling, so lonely and rude,
W hen the moon setting beams on the western rocks
die,
O'er tlte murmuring breast of the blue heaving Sood,
The music of peace in the gales of tlte sky..
And oft when the moon settle?; clear
the seas,
Ere she hides her cold urn in the clouds ot" the
west,
A voice from on high mingling oft with the breeze
Wakes the storrn. beaten wretch from her feverish rest.
Oil ! it steals o'er her spirit 5 » plaintive and sweet,
Like the voice of love to the coldbreaking heart,
Ere the warm pulse of agony ceases to beat,
Or the forms of delight from the swimming eye
part.
Site beholds the convulsions of nature unmov'd,
ïet she weeps while the warblings of paradise
charm,
But they say 'tis the spirit of one whom she loy'd,
When her heart in the moments of transport
»
warm.
And when the faint cadence at distance expires,
Her desolate breast feels tbe horrors return
That cloud her dark soul wfiile the slow wasting fires
Of maddening woe in her wild bosom burn.
She scjales the grey cliff that o'ershaJow* her cave,
Aiiâ^^eath the dark bough» of the withering tree,
She chaurj'j' f° tlie wandering ga SSUf (H'Mrave,
That sijjiwteer the slumb'rers who rest if, f ron , ^a.
tmaff hw it wm» aip —'. iwimm— o r SSS
fit Ü)e (Hint on-!
pat,,
qve 11 :
[By Authority.]
AN ACT
Supplemental to an act, entitled "An act extending
the right of suffrage in the Indiana territory,and for
otlipr purposes."
B E it enacted hy the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America , in Congress assembled, That the
governor of the Indiana territory, for the
time being, be, and is hereby authorized
and empowered to apportion the representa
tives among the several counties in said
'erritoryjas he shall think proper, jtaving
regard to the numbers limited in the fourth
section of the act to which this is a supple
ment, and to issue his writ for the election
of such representatives agreeably to the ap
portionment which he may name, at such
.lime as he shall deem most convenient for
the citizens of the several counties in said
territory.
Sec. 2 . And be it further enacted, that so
soon as the legislature of said territory shall
be convened the number of representatives
in each county thereof, shall he regulated
by the general assembly.
Sec. 3. And be it further enacted, That
when any vacancy shall occur in the legisla
tive council, by death, resignation or re
mowal ftom office, or when from either of said
causes there shall be no delegate from
said territory to the congress of the United
Slates, the governor shall in either case he
authorized to issue his proclamation,direc
ting an election to he held to supply such
vacancy according to law.
J. B. Varnum,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Andrew Gregg,
President of the Senate pro tempore.
December 15,1809,
JAMES MADISON.
AevKisvcrf,
From the National Intelligencer,
EXPOSITION
Of tile conduct of the Her.
FRANCIS JAMES JACKSON,
In his correspondt nee with
ROBER T SYIT1I, Enquire,
1
Secretory off State,
CONI INUED.)
In conclusion, Mr, Jackson confesses in bis
letter of the Id'll of October, that lie is not in
to promise to tbe government of
structed
the United States any formal agree men' to be
substituted for that wliioh his majesty had been
under the necessity of disavowing," and that,
as to tbe orders in council, " it is matter of
indifference to G. Britain, whether the order
in council lie continued, or an arrangement by
mutual consent substituted in its room."
This,
witH his preceding observations, furnished near
p!
ly a .complete devclopemeiit of the nature and
tendency of Mr. Jackson's mission.
Thu
real nd unqualified interdiction of all trade with
the enemy,"he contended to become tin principle
declared it to be a doctrine which Great Bri
tain would never cease to maintain, admitted
that he had no new propositions to make, and
that his sovereign, adhering to the spirit of the
orders in council, was lotaily indifferent as to
the firm, but would by no means relinquish
, in other words, if
the su'i 'rwre of them ;
tin: United States would by compact accede to
the ptovisions of the orders, then, indeed, ills
Britannic majesty wsuld agree to substitute
such compact for the orders in council. So
far fiotn this being a repeal of the orders in
council, it was a .A maud on the American gov
ernment to ratify limit by tan'.
At this point of the discussions, the presi
dent would have acted pe'ituliy correct in re
linquishing all correspondence with Mr. Jack
son on the subject of reconciliation. G rent
Britain was resolved to maintain her anti-neu
tral system, Mr. Jackson had nothing new to
oder, he did not even come prepared to make
an explanation ; his style of correspondence
was supercilious, his ptedominant temper irri
tating, and the whole train of his logic repul
sive to a good understanding between the two
2.
He was, to be sure, if that which
countries.
he says be true, "directed to rece/vr-and discuss
proposals which the secretary of state might
be authorised to make to him." in other words,
he was to constitute himself a tribunal for de
ciding upon the propositions of the American
government. He would " receive and discuss
proposals," just as the war office or post office
of the United States would receive and discuss
proposals for supplying the troops with provi
sions or for carrying the mails ; and the sum
total of his instructions seems to have been to
advertise the secretary of state that Mr. Jack
son would thus " receive and discuss proposals,"
and by faintly intimating that he was authori
sed " cvintrfally" to conclude a convention, to
enticed lie president to bid up for a contract,
Mr, Jaiftsotl would not come out forthwith and
T fife that would he acceptable to him ; but
if Mr. Smith could reach his mark, if he could
guess (for it amounts to this.) what the instruc
tions of the new envoy were, then Mr. Jack
son would unfold the true object of his mission ;
lie would condescend to open his port folio and
expose his secret. IBs conduct in ibis parti
cular is precisely os if a man should say " !
have nothing to offer in behalf of peace, nor
can 1, indeed, say exactly what I will agree to ;
but you may go on pioposlng, and if the presi
dent gives me enough for it, I will sell him a
Even admitting the president
convention.
could have demeaned himself to this species of
diplomatic legerdemain, to this kind of hide am'
seek correspondence, what prospect did Mr.
Jackson's actual intimations hold out to him ?
None, that was at all consoling : the whole po-_
iitica! landscape painted by the new minister
was barren and dreary. Although the succes
sor of Mr Erskine would not affirm positively
what his sovereign wait'd do, yet he very plain
ly designated what he would niff do. He would
not rescind .he orders in council upon any other
terms than a substitution by compact of similar
provisions in their stead ; he would never cettse
to maintain the prerogative of a total and un
qualified interdiction of all trade with the
ene
my; and, essentially speaking, he would not
consent to abandon a single prominent feature
of that maritime policy, against the whole sys
tem of which the constituted authorities of
America h*d uniformly protested. Where,
then, was the use of making proposals to Mr.
Jackson? Did he imagine that the American
government, in the pursuit of its rights, would
waste its time and its labor for his amusement,
to frame propositions merely to he received, and
discussed, and rejected by him? The gentleman
has by this time discovered that he undervalued
the cabinet of Washington, and committed bis
fame and ltis feelings (if feelings he has any,)
to the thorns cf ridicule and contempt.
But the American administration would not
be provoked into an early and abrupt rejection
of the hope of accommodation, even through
such an ungracious minister as Mr. Jackson.—
The president and his counsellors appear to
have been deteimincd to probe Mr. Jackson
more closely as to ihn object of bis mission,
and tfejh ing lii-n strictly to ibe test. in the ex.
pectation that be had still in store the preclot 3
balm which was to hea! the festering wounds
of the nation. Accordingly, Mr. Smith ad
dressed ro him on the 1 9th of October, a very
lucid and masterly letter, the commencement
of which exposes the frivolity of the exception
which Mr. Jackson had taken to the prescrip
tion of written for verbal communications.—
1 'he reader must be amused with tbe awkward
and cmix.rras.scd escape which the new envoy
makes from the petplcxity of ignorance and
humiliation which he had
presumptuously
brought upon himself,
No additional weight
can be g-vcn, by any remarks in this place, to
<»e overwhelming arguments by which Mr.
Smith demonstrates the propriety of Mr. Jack
son's presenting a formal explanation of the
true cause of the disavowal of Mr. Krskine's
arrangement, nor to the sagacity and just rea
soning with which the secretary of state points
out an untruth advanced by the represen ative
ot his Britannic majesty relative to that ex
p! mation haying been made in London to Mr.
Pinkney ; nor any force added to the repulsion
of Mr. Jack son's insinuation tnat the govern
ment of the United States had manifested no
dissatisfaction at the disavowal of the arrange
ment.
It is in his letter of the lythof Oct. Mr.
Smith statet* that Mr. Erskitie did present
for his consideration the three conditions" con
tained in the printed dispatch of Mr. Canning
ot the 23d of January ; but that, finding they
were rejected, Mr. Erskitie proposed others
which others were accepted. It is particularly
recommended to the reader to peruse two or
three times, and with attention, that part of
Mr. Smith's letter in question which imnia
dintely follows this statement; it places the
subject in so clear a light that it cannot be mis
taken ; and, in a special manner, let the ex
pression of the secretary of state be remarked,
viz : " That he [Mr. Erskinej had, or, at least,
that he believed he. had sufficient authority to con
clude the arrangement, his formal assurances
durin
our discussions were such as to leave no room
to doubt." Upon this ground, then, the Ame
rican government acted, namely ; Mr. Erskine
verbally suggested three propositions which have
since appeared to be the three conditions em
brac'd in the dispatch from Mr. Canning of trie
2. i l of January, and which wen' rejected by
Mr. smith : and, when the late Britisn minister
proposed otheis more consonant to equ.ty unci
of course more agreeable, he gave form'd as su
nances to the secretary of state, that he was au
thorised to make them the basis of the arrange
ment. Mr. Erskine did not tell Mr. Smith (nor
does Air. Smith say he did, and Mr. Jackson
himself does not openly assert it) that theth.*x
conditions first suggested were tbe 011 / 1 / ones,
which his instructions contained. The sécréta»
ry of state made no enquiry in that respect. It
was none of the secretary's business. It w .s for
Mr. Erskine to look to it that he did not d'sobey
the orders of the king his master. Mr. Smith
was treating with the British accredited minis
ter ; a minister with a full genual rover to act
for the British government.
Mr. E
me never
s/h vied his instructions to Mr. Smith, as Mr.
Jackson admits; but merely in a verbal way, as
any man in making a bargain would do, propo
sed them experimentally. He did precisely wlvat
an individual docs at maikct ; when he could
not make the arrangement, (or, in other words
purchase what he wanted) at one price, he gate
another. If he disobeyed bis instructions, that,
»« Mr. Smith very justly rcrnaiks, " is a ques
tion essentially between him mil bis government."
Me. Erskine himself in hm letter to Mr. Smith,
asseits unreservedly, that " he conceived 'ac had
rouf., ruled to his majesty's wishes; and to the
spirit, at least, of tbe instructions." To tills,
opinion he adhered to the last moment of his re
maining in tile United Suies ; and the only re
volution that appears to have taken place in hia
mind In relation to the subject, was a ft/unfit
convie, ion, occasioned by the disavowal, ''that
lie had formed an erroneous judgment of his ma
il intention ," which is an obser
jrsry s vies
vatiou that Mr. Erskitie makes in his letter of
the I 4 h of August to the secretary of state, and
which is a severe reproach on the British gov
ernment ; fully implying, that although tiie in
structions of Mr. J.tcksou's predecessor justified
the ai rangement, yet that it was neither the
<• v •irai" nor the " intention " of the British mitt*
that any arrangement on reasonable terms
tst-y
should have been entered into.
To the testimony of Mr. Erskine, and to the
reason of the case, is added the explicit declara
tion of Mr. Smith, that the circumstance that,
the dispatch of the 23d of January from Mr.
Cunning to Mr. Erskine was the only -cat which
authorised him to propose conditions, " was fir
the fest time known" to the government of the
United Slates by Mr. Jackson himself, tn his
letter of the Utb of October: "and (Mr.
Smith continues) I need hardly add, that if that
dispatch had ueea communicated nt the time of
the arrangement, or tf it had been known that
the propositions contained in it, and which were
nt first presented by Mr, Erskine, were the only
on which lie was authorised to make an ar,'
ones
rangement, the arrangement would not have been
' " There is no duplicity m this language ;
made.
it denies all knowledge of the real tut
re
extent of Mr. Etskine's instruction« ; and avers,
ifthey had been known to be such as Mr. Jack
assertS them to be, no compact would have
son
been cade. It will be seen in the conclusion
