IVii.nington, September 30, 180'J.
TUESDAY
Citizens of Delaware /
on
NEXT you ate to exercise the important
- ight of suffrage, In tlte discharge of this
ri
inestimable right —this patriotic autii fit
behoves you to think, speak and act as Cree•
, as citizens of United America ,-—'the
men
onlv free government on Earth , the omy a
sylum for oppressed humanity. It is inlin
itely easier to preserve our liberty at the
polls than contend tor it iu the field, Let-us
then shew ourselves worthy of the sacred
blessings transmitted tous by the heroes and
statesmen of our revolution, by breaking
down the monster Aristocracy, who, under
the assumed name of Federalism, has been
too long suffered to raise his brazen crest a
mong us. Let us elect such men to repre
sent us a3 will not betray tlte trusts of iree
men, by withholding their assent to " laws
the most wholesome and necessary for the
public good"—and disgrace the character
of the state, by a systematic opposition to
the measures of the General Government.
The charge of French influence, which was
for a time so successfully used, by British
emissaries and degenerate Americans, to
bring odium on the American administrati
on, is now known by every unprejudiced
American, who has taken any pains to in
h.<-ttf*iiial u, the
* «1* Jv!hitp4P|
t>.
i'
baseless fabric of a vision"—of which the
change of sentiment that is known to have
taken place in Vermont, Rhnde-Isl.tnd,
Massachusetts, and even Connecticut, the
land of steady h.ihits. furnishes abundant
proof. A slight acquaintance with the act*
of our General Government is sufficient to
convince every unprejudiced rr.incl of its de
votion, for more thao eight years past, to
interests and national greatness.
our 'rue
Who th .
the revih rs of our govern.
u are
men. ?
A faction of apostate Americans.
aidedbv iJihish em.ssar
and perhaps re
warded lu British gold—men, who, under
the specious name of American Federalists,
Seek c uvet for me purpose of abusing it. j
\ ts, tcdow-cilizens, these men are enemies !
to R-publican simplicitv. Republican man- j
nrr».,r,d Republican government—theysigh |
t it 'hr gaudy trappings of rmaltv. Let us
Elenas America.o— s citizens whose views •
are (l'Sin -
rs',;!, and whose interests are I
the same—
toe support of men who i
'I'.vu to be friendly to the principles of I
; -i
R-I ibiicauis.n, and who will act in utiLon '
with / ur General Government. !
M-ncJ
who have done your j
• event :
diK- in the " times lha
men s souls, ,
repan to the p-fit,—your example will do
nttre than yc u are ..ware of—it will con
firm v si, r ch'ldr-. n and grand-children in the
pr.it i p c s t jr which you to^ght and bled,
and j-ivly reproach the hike-warm, by con
- i
theih that, though the lamp of life
VI..
bil'-ts dimly in the socket, the flame of pa
ism ts u'u ihutcd. Ehe most cumiorta
hi ■ means will be provided for conveying
u to and from the Election.
y
Sons of
eehoL'i-rs, between the age ol
tw ntycne and twenty-two, do not lotget
tha .be laws of the s'a'e er, tide you to vote,
titmgh vou may not have been assessed, or
pait u tisx. t ^
Sons oj Erin, whose hearts heat high for ]
the Rights ol Alan, it is scarce!} necessary !
to remind you of vour duty—you will not j
ttcgn ct to exercise correctly the inestimable j
privileges to which the laws oi your adopted
country entitle you.
Federalists, who are Americans at heart
—whose patriotism swells for the substanti
ai Ultet ests of your country—listen to the
voice of truth, and pursue its dictates. We
recommend to your serious consideration
ille following luminous article, which,
ex
cept some trifling alterations, we copy from
an address to the Federalists of New-Jer
sey, by A Washington Republican.
As citizens of the American Republic;
as Freemen and the only freemen ori our
glioe. the privilege oi electing our rulers is
one of the greatest importance; and tue ob
liga' î an of exercising this privilege in a be
coming manner, is a duty Irons which none
can exempt themselves, without manifest
ing t total disregard of the immense favors
whi< b a k-.iicTand benificent Providence has
conf i .d oil them, in pet muting them to
choose t.-eir own rulers, and being govern
ed by their own laws.
" Nor is it less
dereliction of duty to
hi ns'-lf, his friends and h.s country, for a
n man to a' sent himself Iront the polls,
u ,s prevented attending by circumstances
Which he cannot controul.
*■ 1 it us much i-y way of pointing out the
i -î aiense value of the privilege, and titc im
p r arice of in,- duty.
Y-in are freemen, and doubtless
you
d , : . io remain freemen: you desire to see
y country flourishing, prosperous and
hippy; and not only so, but you desire that
Idrcn tr.av long enjoy these uless
vjur cl
togs; fur the man who looks not forward to I
the future good of those to whom he tpvr r ;
being, is not among the number whom 1
I
address.
Have you reflected how much all tht'r
4 ;
good things depend upon those whom yen
may select to tall the various offices in yrmi
gift? I fear not:—It is mv wish to awaken
your reflections-to impress upon you
minds the importance ol selecting men
K
fill the offices which become vacant on tlte
dd of October next, who with a stein,
in
and unchanging resolution vvtl,
flexiule,
march straight forward in the line oi their
dutv, and in defence of your freedom ;
unci
who will not surrender one iota of your
country's right, hut with their lives.
" I wish to address you as a Republican
speaking to Federal Americans. U is lar
from being mv wish to offend—far from be
ing my intention to excite the angry passions
Let not such a suspicion find an abiding
place with you. If the mild language of
persuasive reasoning will not convince you,
that to continue in opposition to the nation
til government, is to injure our country .then
it is not my wish, that you should change.
" In the first place, what is federalism,
what is republicanism ? Whs these distinc
tions among Americans, who should know
no distinctions; and who in union only, can
find safety i
Are we not disagreeing about which
foreign nation is most friendly to us, when
none are friendly, when all are hostile ?
" is it not necessary that I should con
is to you that the republican party former
ly expected most friendship from France;
need I say that the federal party do still
expect most friendship from England ?
Fatal predilections', fatal partialities 1
Foreign nations take advantages of our dt
visions to i. jure, to insult, to wrong our
country. I
Is it not sufficient that t' 4 e republicans
<>
have entered tlleir solemn protest against !
t;.c wrongs of France; can you nut do the
same with respect to England ?
Is
it possible .that you can longer be- |
lieve your own government in the wrong, j
j and that of England in the right; and if you !
! do not believe this, why oppose your own 1
j government, and support that of England ?
| " Am I mistatin'g the case, when I say j
that the federal party oppose their own go- i
• vernment, nod support that of England ?— j
I Suppose l used language the contrary of j
i this and said, I lie federal party have uni-l,
I foi'irdv supported their own government, |
' while'comettding for our rights, anü opposed !
! that of England in the unnumbered wrongs 1
j it does us-Yourselves would say my state
, ment was ; not true.
And is it possible that part of the Arne
i tcan people are in battle-array against their
own government, and .hat on the side of a
government which has heaped upon
us un
i numbered wrongs ! Î
" Are the republicans, in battle-arrav a
gainst their own government, on the part of
France ! No. For were they so, then fare
well to liberty; for with
us, liberty could
find no resting place
no home.
" Federalists, weigh well in your minds
this all-important circumstance, that
our
national government is now contending for
our rights with the most formidable Kuro
tiean powers; and, lo obtain what is our just
1
] doe, our united strength is barely sufficient,
! "I anticipate y mir answer to this; I
j know you will say (for you have hcenffi
j structed to say these things, by men whose
interest it is to deceive you)—1 know you
will say why did our government get teto
these contentions with foreign powers ?_
As though our government in this, was cri
minai, as though it had sought contentions,
or as though it could avoid them,
When
will you lie conv inced that out
government
has sought peace, that it has made many sa
crifices to obtain and preserve it, as its past
and
present négociations death- demon
strate !
" Doei not the late conduct of the En
glish government, in rejecting the arrange
ment made by their minister, Mr. Erskine,
clearly shew with what difficulty
an ar
rangement could be obtained; and when ob
tained; if found a lit'.le favorable to us, by
permitting us to trade to the continent oi
Europe, they still refuse to abide by it ?
, " V ' r ' 11 nothing convince you that these
European nations are hostile to us, but an
actual invasion of our
c °nntry ; must the
Inood of our citizens again crimson
our
plains, to show that those
nations are not
friendiv ?
Is it a new thing that these Eutop
can
nations have done us injury and wrong ?_
No, surely. 'I he histories of the adtninis.
tracions of Washington, and Adams, equal
ly prove that to do us wrong, is, with them,
but their daily labor.
Is there any man so ignorant, or so wil
fully perverse, as to deny that both England
and France have wronged us under all the
different administrations ? Certainly there
is none.
V.'bv then expect an exemption from
I
;c t vils under the administration of Jef
; ù
iist or- Madison ; or how do you expect
hi
I it, hut l.\ utijiing to repel their insolent ag
gressions ?
" Should I say to you that, the govern
ment of England being Monarchical, is
triendiy to our republic, and th
opte of
England, being commercial, ate frirndlv to
'ur merchants, vourselves would conic for
ward and deny the correctness of my state
ment and w it was net true.—
■ What ? A
■nnnarchy ftiendiy to repultiics—merchants
tiiendlv to those who ri.ui tiietn in trade,—
and who take a part ci
great mass of
commerce! (No, it cannot be.' Thus would
you reply to me .—Why not then believe
me when I tel! you, that to defend our li
berty, and secure our commercial rights,
we must unite our councils, and our
strengin,
" How unfortunate for our country that
the only accusations of any importance
brought against the men selected to'rule,
■mould relate solde tu foreign affairs.-—
Could we hut a cuse men (l mean the re
publicans) of any crime relating to home af
l-irs, so as to procure their dismissal from
office, foreign nations might suppose that,
in a contest with them, tve should he united
—'but now, our accusations against these
men, go to justify foreign nations, whale
ver may have been their conduct to us.
" It is not among the circumstances least
favorable to tlte Republican Administra*
lion, that to find the ground of an accusa
non against them, their enemies must seek
amidst the contentions that we have with
foreign nations. Could they but bring some
charge against them that was more suscep
cibler, of proof, or more immediately under
the inspection and notice of the peop'e, how
much sooner they would be heard,
I *• Haw manv things might he urged in
(justification of the Republican Administra
! tion.
''W'as tt for mal-administration in relation
to foreign affairs that the federalists
were
| deprived of power ? Nc:—for had their not
j been weighty charges against them on other
! grounds, nothing could have prevented
1 them ruling until ihisftmir.
" Look back to the (lays of federalism, and
j see. if during the administration of that man
i "ho was particularly stiled a federal President,
j I mean John Adams, you can discover so ma
j Ijocid thing;, unmixed with evil, that you
!loa ri; tu; n of tliem. Certain I am that,
| 10 '' e ' cr s ume leading federalists may attempt
! l ' live 'be public sentiment, none of them
1 . j\ Ic \ l '. rn lo ll ' e things that then
wliddaH join'with Sldr^ffiUdeJt^m
more wise by experience) and reprobate the
measures that himself and them did then pur
sue.
' i \ \ here then the crime of arresting men
in a career which some ol themselves have con
fessed led on to ruin ? And if no crime in stop
ping them, surely it is no crime to prevent
them again commencing the same untoward
journey.
I would ask every Dei.awahe Ff.deha
i.ist, what they can promise themselves, c:
or
their country by a return to federal measures.
Nothing, surely, wortli the change. And,
what are the mighty crimes of tl.e republicans,
that they are- so unSuthi-g to administer out
government ? Alas ! thc.r crimes ur«, that die
1 European governments do us wrong !
" N ** a calculation ot federal men that the
c mted States, w-.11 again submit to their
truv
eminent ? \ ain hope Î Fooli -It expects! on I_
Never cap those events take place until federa
tl. E m has totally changed.
One oi the opportunities have ofiVt-cd for
the federal leaders to have r; deemed tlu ii po
litical characters; but these they suffered to
pass by. They aie accused Ol being the In
gbsb party in the Un-tv-1 States, and had they
seized the opportunity of the outrages of En
gland. to declare
t'lnst Iter, theii former po
fit.cal sins would
llute been forgiven, and tliem
selves feinst:.
d in the uubiic favour.
Is s not an as-'-tiisiiing cncumstencc that
the leading fc -fr,'(lists si.ould maintain such an
obstinate attachment to England ? And, if they
attempt to persuade themselves th-t there isiio
such attachment, they practice a deception up
on their own unoti'stcuiiiirgs, A friend su ,r -
gests to them that if they 'would only demon
strate that they are not the parttzans of En
gland, and give the ütgluest evidence of
un
attachment to France on the part of the repub
licans, their elevation to power is certain.— in
the, remark I luist they will see only the tultno
nition ol a friend, an-1 the advice of one who is
neither a partizun o 1 ' England or France.
. ^ would ask these federal gentlemen, tvlial
'? prospect of gain, of advantage, of pro
lit, from an attachment which lias hitherto
proved so fatal ? No sooner do they gam some
1'itie credit with their fellow citizens, than
some outrageous conduct of their Emdish
friends mins their characters, bunk-iipts them
in po tttc.d reputation, end clashes Horn their
lips tlte cup ot expected honors umd rewards.
How much more advunta
r , , geous It would be for
our .ederal dealers m poiitirai men i.audiz , to
set up business for themselves, and dismiss
their English partners. It IS , iuc cap ; ta!
-it commencing would be somewhat smaller
mu they niEbi '(und I hop: would) acquire
noiitsty, and save jmbciuuslv, and in time be
come respectable traders. '
•" In soliciting y.iu to dismiss your Et
friends, I «m aware of the objection you ma*a
on the ground that, to secure us front the for
midable power of Frame, the fiiendship of En-"'
gland is necessary. lint is not this an idea!
danger? Uo you not affright your imaginations
with what has no existent c ? Have you not con
tinually represented Fr: line as being scatcely
uble to stand up against her continental
eue
mies, when it suited vour purposes ? Unques
tionably you have. Austria, you say was for
midable to her ; Spam would stop lier carter ;
Holland was wearied out with her oppressions ;
Italy was only waiting the favorable moment to
shake off her yoke ; Germany felt her humilia
tion ; yea even Fiance itself was ready to rise
in arms against the Corsican usurper. These
things you ha'e said, an I an hundred limes us
much, when it suited your views to represent
b ranee as weak, feeble and divide ! !
" But admitting that tlte power of France
was really greati and that she was hostile tom,
would it be a safeguard for us to seek the pro
tection of Englinri? No; Ibis would be seek
ing refuge in the paws of the Lion, fiom t! e
jaws of the Tyger. Look at home my friend',
un.te without countrymen, and aided by Hea
ven, you can protect yourselves :
" Let m discuss a few pouts more, and
close the friendly conference.
" Lit her England leas, or has not wronged
us. This (L'M'OIl rry.i TEL y FOU fSj *
is a question yet to he detei milled in the minds
of many honest men !
" If England has wronged us, then are
those who justify her (knowing that she it
. 1 -,
wroiige ' m*J inexcusably guilty before God, and
betöre their qountry.
" If England has not
wronged us, how could
her minister promise a redress of wrongs, and
that they should not be repeated !"
" If England has wronged us, then are those
wrongs unredressed, and she still continues to
inflict them.
" II England su'd continues to wrong us,
then does every act of opposition to govern
ment, in relation to foreign matters, still
t-n
courage he r to proceed, and Heaven onlv
knows
at what distant [vo nt these wrongs will
end.
" Men of Dr lavan ! Arc you fathers? Then
cal! your children before you, and let them
plead tins case, for I am certain that their plead
ings will not be heard in vain.—Are your fa
thers, and c..n you see all the future pic-spects
ol your children blasted in the bud ? VYhat
hope of future happiness for them
can vou
dwell upon, when you contemplate that wade
spread ruin, and destruction to the piosperity
of your country, which the European nations
have planned and are exec uting ? Think of dies -
things, and see if an union with your feflnw
c.it.zcn9, in supporting our virtuous Chief Ma
gistrate, while hr is contending for your rights,
is not the best policy- you can possibly pursue.
" Men of Delaware ! I inquire not vvlint are
your occupations, pursuits or stations in the al
lotment o! Piovidet.ee. \\ hetlter farmer, me
chanic, nr merchant ; lawyer, physician or di
vine : whether (like myself) you labour fer
your daily bread, or whether-Providence, in its
dispensations has assigned you what is thought
a happier station. These things arc intmateri
Your good, your interest, yout'Ultimate "
al.
object is, or should he, one, and ihn'. OSE, to
procure for your country an exemption from
those evils Wundt the European nations arc
bringing upon it.
" You ask,
will not the election of federal
ti
men, procure an exemption from these evds ?
1 answer, NO.
l or federt) men have uni
form! y said'that
England bad done us no es
sential injury —tout these evils are not brought
upon us by foreign nations ; that the measures - -
adopted from time to time to procure a redress
of grievances were not necessary, or Were im
and by every other means in their pow
pruper
• have they opposed our national government,
CI
while it lias been contending for our rights ;
always seeking to cast the- blame on their fellow
citizens, and exempt foreign nations liom all
censin e.
• s>uc ' 1 conduct on the part of your leaders
evinces every great want of intelligence,-where
by t.iey were prevented seeing the trite source
ot the evils that afflict
...... our country, or a total
want ot principle, which renders them still
more unfitting for any office in your gift.
1 bus does:,n American, a native of your
state audtess you : he holds no office, and 'ecks
■ -one: he has no ft it mis in office, or desiring
to be. 1 hus does, and thus would he plead
your cuise, were he certain, that in the next
tour lie must he summoned to plead his own,
bclnre the Almighty Father of the Universe.
-
Accept, there lore, this assurance of mv sin
cere desire for your political good, though you
should call in question the cortectntss of the
council 1 have given."
Pursuant to public notice, a number of
is
emocrattc Republicans of the borough and
vtctnnv of Wilmington assembled at Ander,
■son 4- Iavern on the evening of the 2Gth in
stant, to make arrangements relative to the
approaching General Election. John JFar.
Esq. was called to the Chair, and Z,ba Fer
ris appointed Secretary. The following per
sons were appointed as a
COMMITTEE OF V1GU.ESCE
Jacob Dei rick son, William You»", ' John
G
rt'gg, \v tlbam Garretson, Paul M'Cil! W,(
liam BoyJ, James Aibiickle, James Hon«. Mi
cbael .legear J.tmea Gardner, William [fohat
s 1 °"> 1 lu "" a3 Moore, William Smith, Isaac Ka
iterson, Peter \ andiver, William fi
liipley, G
-:>r
ra! J. Wolf, David Kirkpatiic k,
bamuel W.d
lare, Joseph Seed?, Midtael L
avery, John Sim;-
