( g. Commerce— may its eagle wings be clip
of
| ped when it tends to the reduction of our inde
pendence .—1 gun. 9 cheers.
10. The army of the U". States—may it con
tinue till its reduction be required by the sove
the
reigns of the land.— 1 gun. 9 cheers.
fl. The militia ofthe U. States—may they
possess the bravery and patriotism of those
timesthat produced the present blessings .—1
» pun. 9 cheers.
" 12. May concord and unanimity ever exist
among our citizens .—1 gun. 9 cheers.
13. George Washington, the father of his
Solemn music.
■ country .—1 gun.
if 14. May the services of our war-worn vete
fl rans never he forgotten.— 1 gun. 9 cheers,
ffl 15. The State of Delaware—may the sun of
a republicanism arise with a tenfold refulgence,
■ and flash conviction on the minds of her de
on
its
E luded citizens.—1 gun. 3 cheers.
JS$ 16 . The policy of Themas Jefferson—may it
be imitated by tlie present administration, as it
S will ever be revered by the great body of the
I people.— 1 gun. 9 cheers.
i& 17. The American fair—may they ever pre
1 gun. 9 cheers.
■f fer tlie solid to the graceful.
VOLUN TEERS.
By the President —May the protecting influ
, 1:1
1 Providence be extended to the Lb Suites
enceo
3 cheers.
hereafter, as heretofore.— 1 gun.
B'l the Vice-President —The American peo
ant
ple,' may they wisely attend to the cultivation
. of morals.—1 gun. 3 cheers.
lit Major Jrjuctt —The eleventh Congress,
evince in their deliberations more
, yin.iV they
'. 1 *«ability and firmness than their predecessors.
j 1 gun. 3 cheers.
"j Hi Mr. Charles 11. Ilnuu-'n-y —Liberty, the in
PX fain of America, may it never cease to spread
f, irs benign influence, till every government t ;
i likened toits own.—d gun.
3 sneers.
ih/ Captain Mniduiha/t .— The American ca
i7t gte. may it ever b< ware ol the crouching lion
y) and the crowing cock .—1 gun. 3 cheers.
M jj Bp Mr. J liait - —1 lam iton und Burr, Put
!r
■■Æ eriug and Marshall, may their characters,
M buoyant by coi ruptiou, float down the stream
; t* of time, tiie objects of disgust and detestation to
as
•^un. 9 cheurs.
f'.f every American.— 1
of
May the Legislator who
i Jin a Riijie-Ma/.rr.
f refuses to encourage' die manufactures of his
to wear a homespun
... country be compelled
ral
ft neck-cloth.
oi
Summary of Foreign Nae/s. —By the ar
.
rival of tile Fair American ai Philadelphia,
from Durikitk, whence shi sailed the 8 th
'h
. of May last, we are in possession ol bulle
of
tins from the armies of France and the con
federation under the command of Napo
leon. These bulletins detail the operati
ons in Germany to the 27th of April, and
, record a series of very important victories
obtained over the Austrians. The Aus
trian army pa-ssed the Inn on the 9th of
April, news of which reached Paris by te
legraph on the evening of the 12 th ; rut ihe
13th Bonaparte left Paris, and, with that
rapidity which always characterises his
j; movements, mrived at Donau wr-nh in
d B.ii a: ia, a distance oi more than 500 miles,
-
in the night of the I 6 ih. On .he 19th sc
ol
p veial engagements took place between
Flench and Austrian detachments, in
j which the-latter u.uffered considetilbiv- On
the 20.h Bonaparte, at the head ot the Ba
Varians and Wirtein lerghcra, attacked an to
Austrian division of GO.000, and defeated
them with the loss of 13,000 men, tight
pair of colors and twelve pieces of cannon,
This victory was succeeded by another on
the dav following, in which the French
. ^
took o 0 pieces o cannon, j p.isonus,
3000 baggage waggons, and thiee supem •
sets ol pontoon bridges, together with the ;
hospitals and the magazines which the
Austrian army had began to form. T he
next day the main body of the Austrian ar
mv consisting of 110,000 men, under the
S immediate command of the archduke
4 Chmlcs, was attacked and completely rout
KT . ! . .. 'VUc.
Night put an end U» the pu.su t. I he
ed.
I
archduke Charles is said to l ive ieen in
1; drifted ior his escape to the swiliness ot
his horse. i he Trench pursued their ad
A
vantages the next day, and succeeded in
n
making a vast nutnher of prisoners, he.
with little opposition and trifling loss on
their part. The fate of Austria is unques
t
tioual.lv decided. The archduke Charles
is supposed to have fled to the mountains
r n \ • « nrnrhma.mrv
ol Boncmia. Bonaparte, m a p oil n ation
to his soldiers, States " that he has taken ...
'
these several engagements 40 standards,
50,000 prisoners, 3 equipages, 3000 wag
wilh baggage, and all their military
gnns
Before one month (says he) we
chests,
1
shall he at Vienna.
FOR THE DELAWARE GAZETTE.
'M.
Mr. Editor,
s
Your establishment of a republican paper
must give pleasure to cvety republican. The
long period that has elapsed since the publicu
lion of a paper in this state, devoted to the ad
«1
/i
vancement of pure republicanism, has, unques
tionably, been the means ol" the great federal
11 *
i
influence that at present exists. It is time
that sound and pun; principles be disseminated
among the worthy and independant yeomen ol
Delaware ; let us;] ien hail the commencement
m
'*
of your paper as the epoch of republican Iege- i
iteration in this state—and convince our great I
sister states that we are not unworthy of asta
tion in the ranks of democracy. No more wiil
the calumnies with which the federal presse
have for years teemed, pass uncontradicted,
unrefuted—let federalism hid adieu to the sys
tem of gulling and trapping which so success
of
Hilly has been practised on the unsuspecting
peasantry of the state. The tales of " French
influence,
Two millions of dollars," Etc.
ti
have passed by, and
all the talents of tue
country" appear to be employed, if we may
judge by their silence, in the coinage of some
new tale which in its turn is to run through the
channels of filth 'till some other bantling is
produced by the
wise men of the East."—
Thus, Sir, passes their calumnies, generation
generation, each gradually rising, till by
on
its accumulated weight, the " Babel" of fede
1
ralism tumbles to the " Tomb of the Capulets"
there to rest unlamented, whilst proud repub
licanism, toweling like the eagle, spreads its
doctrines over unhappy
EUROPE.
Red-Lion Meeting.
A T a large and respectable meeting of the
citizens of New Castle county, convened pursu
ant to public notice at the Red Lion Tavern, on
Saturday the 24th of June, ISoO, to take into
consideration the propriety of a removal of Ihe
seat of justice of New Casile county, Iroin its
present to a moie central and suitable situation,
and io concert measures to carry the same into
'•licet-—G siorge Clauk, Esq. was appointed
Chairman, and JeiiKMIAH Llwoen, Secietaiy.
The chairman having explained die object of
the meeting, a committee of five persons weie
appointed to prepare ami npoit resolutions to
me meeting on the subject. The committee
having retired and prepared, presented the fol
lowing repmt :
That whereas it appears to your committee 1
tiiat very general complaints have been made by
tbe citizens of New Castle county, of ihe secret
as well us open attacks of the people of the town
of New Casile on their propeity and interests
it
under tnc delusive pretext of public improve
ments, while it is evident to eveiy observer that
diese innovations are not intended to be a gene
ral benefit lo the county, hut on the contrary are
calculated to enhance tiic value of the property
v pit .ate individuals, and to shorten anil
oi a
.
improve tile roads to the present seat of justice,
situated at an extreme part of the county ; justly
dreading from the increasing population and spi
'h of public accommodation, that the citizens
of this county will not long put up with the in
convenience of travelling many milesfutther dun
necessary lo die present seat of justice without
some extraord nary induct ment, which the peo
ple of the town of New Castle hope to find in
shortening and beautifying the roads from every
pint ofthe comity, (which can only be dime bv
deranging old establishments ami ruining the
principal part of the properly through which they
pass) and making new and unnecessary mails,
lor no other purpose than to facilitate die com
munication with that place, erecting elegant and
expensive bridges, &c. &c. that the enormous
txpences of these innovations are iniquitously
and unjustly intended to be drawn from the funds
ol the county.
That secret ami fraudulent measures have
been take, to obtain orders of couit lor those
roads, and petitions forwarded to the houses ot
assembly, praying the sanction of the legislatuie
to measures of die greatest importance, without
the knowledge of those most interested living in
the vicinity, ami signed by a lew persons only,
whom tiiey are intended lo benefit.
» therefore resolved, as the opinion of this
'~g, t«at sucb conduct, w.th such means,
must duly common vigilance, and hence it is
reasonable to calculate that sooner or later they
vvi jj unless the excuse and pretext lor
employing them be removed, and
lit it furihtr resoietd, that a memorial he pre
sentecl to the legislature ot' the state of Delaware,
at their next session, piaving a removal of the
scat cf justice of New Castle county, from its
present to a more central ami suitable place.
)\ report was unanimously adopted.
On motion, Resolved, that a committee ot six
chrisliima llUn dreil, und of three
)rom eac (, G f ;[ ie other hundreds be, ami are
hereby appointed to meet at the Red Lion Tav
ern< on thetliiicl Saturday in August next, (the
lyth) to draught and publish a memorial to be
presented to tiie state legislature, praying a re
moval of the seat of justice of New Castle coun
ty, from its present to a more central situation,
to be designated in the said memorial, anil that
the said committee consist of the following per
sons vlz - John Llliot, Adam Williamson and
j • McClintock for B. H. John Way, James
Brolwo Dallie , Lowber , Jacob Broom, Fran
cis 0<Daniel and Jacob Robinson for C. H. John
'i' W eed, Jeremiah .Springer and Andrew Rey
no j<| s for M. C. H. George Gillaspie, James
Price and David Nivin for W. C. C. H. Wdli
Cooch, Morgan Jones and Oliver R. How
am
ell for P. C. H. Jesse Devoeu, Jeremiah Lew
den and AbrahamShort for N.C. II. Jesse Hig
gins, Alexander Jamison and James Miles for
R. L. H. Enoch Thomas, John Merrit and
William Frazier for St. Geoige's H—and John
Clark, Captain Richard M'Kee and Abraham
Staatts for Appk. H.
Resokcd, that the said commute be, and they
are hereby invested with such further power, as
in their opinion and discretion may be necessary
for carrying the same into effect.
And it sens further Resolved, that the proceed
ings of this meeting signed 1^ the Chairman
and Secretary be published in the Delaware Ga
zrttr, and 3oo copies he pituletl in h.,nd bills
and distributed through the comity,
GEORGE CLARK. Chairman.
Attest
JEREMIAH LEWDF.N,
5ft ty.
The prince of lichlenrtem , who is stated to
have been killed in Bavaria, at the late battle
of Rohr, had just published, (prior to entering
on the fatal campaign) by permission of the
government, a new and comprehensive edi
tion of the statistical tables of the Austrian
empire. According to these tables the popu
lation amounts.to 23,9b'5,000 persons; the re
gular army comprises 390,000 men, of whom
271,800 are infantry, 50.800 cavalry, 14.8 10
artillery ; the rest consists of guards, invalid
corps, &*c. There 1 » besides an army of re
serve ol 4s,530 men, independent of the Hun
The
garian conscription.
empire coni prises
1 1,528 square miles, 7;:0 towns, 2i)4ii fairs.
I'i5,4(j0 villages and ham ets, and 3.573,till)
dwelling houses. The revenue is now 146 flo
rins, 28 of wrrch for the support of the court,
and 18 millions for Uiat of the army. \ ieiurn
contauis 6935 houses, and a population,
cx
elusive of strangers, of 222 80a persons.
'1 his vast empire is now in the grasp of the
Bonaparte dynasty. Fio-.n the breach of the
ticaiy of Amiens, until the period when lli
Austrian monarch did homage for his crown
at AuA.-rlitz ; the impeiial nation had lain
warned, repeatedly and without effect, in th
destruction of surrounding nations, of the f.itr
which awaited tue per in.iciotts adherence to
the court ol St. Janus, at once the enu r and tin
curse ol the world. 1 hat such a
man ns tin
archduke Charles, sho .ht he seiet ted,
RIJ 1 ■
placed at the head oi this last desperate i
I im
oihazaulj is among the many unaccotin
i'iIi
occur.enees, of winch the corrupt coints ,
Europe, have afforded so m m, mvsteriou .
and memorable examples. .Voice the lust/ii i,
ftn.eiw, and iiiiiuiianiiiiuns coalition was formed,
for the disineuib.imewt and the *» bmuing o
1
France nom ihe map of Europe,
v. c CtO Pul
remember m.,r, pitiable and content; libit
effort against tli arms and resources oi t.i
French u nion. Toe thing has turned mu as
it was expected. One of the Bonaptirits will
nian on tiic banks ol the Danube. I'lie lami
5
ol Bur. une, is destined, 1 ke the B.nr/wns,
becom wieiched outcasts and nu.serab e dé
pendait, on the hi: g y bo in 1 // of Europe.
iubltc Advii list r.
FEDERAL CLAIMS
To the merit oj the arrangement with Brit
ain.
Extract from a speech of Mr Fisk in the House of
Representatives May ol
But there was one other remark, and
the gentleman urged it as though he was
really seiious. Although among the lust
he made, it was not the least ex ta iniina
ry. I had heard it made before I came
to this House, Gut thought it war, intended
merely to answer electioneering purposes,
and not believed by those who made it.
It was to this effect 1 that the present
prospect, so fair, was the result of the ex
ertions of the minority in this ccuntr)
and particularly in Congress,
I.CVCJ
did believe that gentlemen who ilainico
this as due to tiie exertions of the initiai i
ty were or could be serious ; and when i
heard it thrown out un the floor since, r
could not but remind me of the fly placet,
on ihe chariot wheel, exclaiming, •* Lo J
ivhnt a dust rue files make /"
it is real
ly surprizing io me, and I am
v. 1121;>2 to
G
confess it, though it may not be novel to
those, (and there are many) who have
more experience in legislation than I have,
how a minority can comroul the majority.
It is the first time that I ever head a mi
nority' in a representative government
claim the merit of a system width tha
minority, call them federalists,
u' ra or
dira
federalists" piotestors (*• wh.it
not, opposed, to the extent oi their ability .
It is repugnant to the very meaning of tin
term f minority) in the English language
For a moment let me ask you, sir, wua.
system did they adtise? Even the las
measure adopted on tbe subject of our for
eign relations,viz, the non-intercourse law,
was opposed by them ; and really, among
the comparisons with which the gemlemui
f:nm Virginia enlightens the members of
this House, 1 re-collect one in rela ion
to that kid, in which he said that it remin
ded him of the man who had invented a
mode td *• letting off his gun by degrees."
He not only disapproved the measure bui
ridiculed it. Who adopted the measure,
sir ? Who, had it proved d.sastinus, would
have been called to account for it ? 1 he
Minority ? No sir ; tbe majority. In ah
popular governments and assemblies die
re
will be minorities. 'I here were minorid. s
in our révolution ; but after our indepen
dence was atcheived, we did not hear them
claim the honor of it. There was a minor
ity iu the convention of tbe United Stales,
but we have not heard this minority say
that it was owing to their exertions that
this charter of our liberties was adopted.
Really, sir, as it strikes my mind, an argu
ment of this kind, scarcely merits an at
tempt at serious refutation. Let me ask,
sir, did the minority elect Mr Jefferson ?
Dili they oi the protestors elect Mr Mail -
son ? The gentleman sa«l, I recollect, that
he does not consider the President as the
administration—Do the minority consii
tute it then ? With whom are trealits for
med ? With the majority or minority ?
with the administration or with individuals?
me that ihe gentleman
It really appears
► o
cannot urge this claim again ; and 1 shookl
not have made these remarks, if i: bed not
been one ot the most extraordinary asseni
ons which I ever recollect to have been
made on the flour ol this House,
GRAND LODGE OF III'.
AWARE
an election, held <>n the 24'h Je of
\
Jone l.isi, ihe following Grand Officers
for the pit sent tear, were duty elt-c <1.
Jesse Green , Esq. Right Wi rshipfcl
Grand Master
The Hon. Juntes Booth. Esq■ Right
Woishipf'd L> j.u'y Grand Aia .ti-r
John Patterson. K gli. Worshipful S. G.
W arden.
Willard Hall, Esq. Right W-.. shipful
J, G. Warden.
Edward Roche, Esq Right Won
; ful
; i ]
Gtatifl Sri.
i->urv.
Dane Su
unison. Esq Right Worshipful
CL-.-.ui In',
- over,
John Sell.irs, Right Worshipful Grand
U itsiul,
David /lohnet, Gr id Tvli-r.
Funlisiu.il v order ut du Gra i! l odge.
KDW
ItOCrlb G. occ'nj
Wtiming ■■ . ji.ii 8, 1«fi9.
t>' Ot ill
i i A. sj t .
AVTNC» succeedvt Warner
. bert in the g>r*c>.ry i>ii»iio
so res lattiv oempiid oy llttin
'ter what I ; idl -rs lor sait- < ■
.'.o.ierirte terms,Kit c .- li or Hie .
yl General Ass or went ot C
And m-pr s by a strict at e..
ss, to merit a share of the public
S 2,
The Packet, Sloop Hope, Capt.
Milne*, with good accommodations ior
passtngers, will ply between this Town &
Philadelphia as usual—all freight sent by
said packet will be carefullv attended to.
Wilmington, Ju'y 8 , 1809
Two "Doda,a,
VjîyITH a reasonable allowance for ne
v V cessary expenses, will be paid for
the apprehension and delivery to the sub
scriber ol KI T PY HYMEN, a light mu
lano servant girl of about thirteen years of
age, who absconded on tiie evening oi ine
2 d instant.
John Reynolds.
Wilmington, July 8 , 18oy.
Farmers B t nk
Of ihe Suite of Delaware,
July 4. 1809 .
PUE Directors have this aiu declared a
1 dividend for the las: six months, at ihe
a;e of six per centum per annum on ihe
capital stuck of this Bank, which will be
paid to tiie stockholders or their i g.u re
presentatives, at the principal Bans and
the Branches, at any time aber ihe 15lh
matant.
PETER CAVERLY. Casifr.
Wilmington. July 8. 1809
fUSt 1 ' 'Ll:> i Lo !I il (iy
By C. ik A. CONRAD K Co. I'liiiadelphia, (&
subscriptions received Gy I'l.cii Gkvnslkc,
Wilmington,)
Vac Ameriu'.n Register,
Or General Ut-p jMIor, of il. story, Poli i.s and Sci
ence—i art second for IliUb. V I. IV.
(P, ice ihn r Uot:
...7 J
i !
" J >FII - volume conta in, a general history of
the täte of r.urope, dining die ime'val
between the peace of i iisii. nd the attack of
the French coupe.or on pain— Officiai papeis
relative to the evacuation of Poungulby tin
french army— Foreign and ■ meiican state p.i
An account of the Red River and coon
pers
iry adjacent—An account of Lnn'siaua at the
time of its transfer to the United .States—. en
sits of Louisiana —Cen.-ms of West flo ida—
Census ot Upper L uisiana—Ceil its ot .sew
Crlean —Catalogue of publications lor iJoti.
account of the ptoceed ngs of the societv of
Friend*, for promoting d-e imprnven.em and
gradual civilization of the ndiuns — Letters
concerning the fortification-, erecting jt . -e.v
York, ike. &c. 5.C
I he American Register is published half
yearly, was commenced in iS-.-y, and tne de
mand having been so great fo: it. that a e hut
few complete sets to be had die publisher,
would tlierefoie prefer new sub ctibe s c mt
menciug with this 4 th vol (as they are now
striking off an additional r.umbe ) which would
be no di advantage, each volum* being com
pete in itself. The price of each volume will
be demanded on delivery ; and the sub.crihtrs
are at liberty to decline ar any time.
