*
THE DELAWARE GAZETTE.
VOL. IQ
WILMINGTON, SATUR DAŸ, SliPTEMBE
K 30, 1809.
[NO. 25
Printed and Published
On Wednesdays and Saturdays
BY JOSEPH JONES,
lo Market street, a few doors above the E nk of
Delaware.
.9 • »
CONDITIONS.
I. Thb Dclswahe Gazette shall he ..ublished
every Wednesday and Saturday, on a large folio
sheet.
II. The price shall be rocn dolt.ahs per annum,
exclusive of postage, payable half-yearly in advance.
III. No subscription will be received for a shorter
period than
year.
IV. Subscribers shall have the rigl» of discontinuing
their subscription at the end of a yea» from the
time of their subscribing, by paying what may be
due, and giving notice of their intention.
i, will
V. Advertisements, not exceeding sixteen li
be inserted four times for one dollar, and for every
•subsequent insertion twenty cents—longer ones in
the same proportion ; but a reasonable discount
will be made in favor of those who advertise by the
year, half-year, or quarter.
-ui
"VI. All articles of a personal or private nature
be charged as advertisements, and must be paid
for before insertion.
iF »11 religious
VII. Advertisements, notices, Ac.
and charitable institutions, within the state of De
laware, shall be conspicuously inserted gratis.
all letters and
(J3> The postage must be paid
oommunications addressed to the Editor, through the
medium of the Post-Office, or they will not be re
ceived.
To the Public .
HE subscriber respectfully informs
T
his friends and the public that he has
purchased the whole slock and trade late
of the firm of John Uf Win. Patterson, sad
dlers, and removed to the west side of
Market street a few doors below Third
atreet, where he continues to carry on the
above mentioned business in all it various
branches, and has constantly for sale a large
and rlegant assortment of articles in his line,
whk he will dipose of on the most reason
able t rms.
William Patterson.
(U Wanted, as apprentices to
the abo% . business, one or two active boys,
of from 14 to 16 years of age.
ap 22 3 m
John Dixon
AVING succeeded Warners Uf Tor •
H
bert in the grocery business, at the
lately occupied by them on Market
•tores
street wharf ; offers for sale on the most
moderate terms,for cash or the usual credit,
A General Assortment of Groceries.
And hopes by a strict attention to busi
ness, to merit a share of the public patron
age.
The Packet, Sloop Hope, Capt.
Milner, with good accommodations for
passengers, will ply between this Town k
Philadelphia as usual—all freight sent by
said packet will be carefully attended to.
Wiltningl° n , July 8 , 1809
A VALUABLE ~~
Tract of Land for sale,
At Private Sale.
HE subscriber offers for sale the tract
T
of Land on which he at present re
sides, situate in Mill-Creek hundred in the
countv of New-Castle and state of Dela
ware," containing two hundred and fifty
acres more or less, with a comfortable
dwelling house and kitchen, a cellar, barn,
and a good stone spring-house thereon
erected, a young apple orchard, and a vari
ety of other fruit trees of the best quality ;
it is well watered by a number of excellent
springs ; on said tract there is near twenty
acres ot good timothy meadow land, alj^ut
forty acres now in clover, a large propor
tion of woodland—and the residue good
arable land capable of improvement
to a
high state of cultivation, being within one
mile of limestone where it can be had on
reasonable verms eight miles Iront Wil
mington and six frum New-Port on ihe
mam road leading from thence to Lanças
ter. As it is presumed any person inclining
purchase will view the premises, it is
to
a further de
thought unnecessary to give .
scription—it will bear a division into three
parts, and will be »old either the whole to
gether t.r in parts as may best suit the pur
If R is not sold at private sale
on
chaser.
or before the 2 «th day of September next,
it will be sold at public sale on ihe premises
on suid day, and a liberal credit given for
considerable part of the purchase money,
a
at which time attendance will be given aud
the terms made known, by
JAMES OCHELTREE.
Wlftnington, June 24, IS09.
Patent Washing Machines.
T HE subscriber respectfully informs his
friends and the public in general, that he
has, some time ago, purchased an exclusive right
of making and vending Calait Washing Machina
throughout the hundreds of Brandywine and
Christiana, in New-Castle county, a number of
which machines he has already made, which
have been tried by divers persons and highly' ap
proved of, as they save a great part of the labour
of washing in the usual way, and are less injuri
ous to clothes. He will continue to make and
have a supply of them on hand, which he will
sell on reasonable terms to such as favour him
with their custom ; and will also sell to anv per
son a right to make and use them within the
the hundreds aforesaid.
A Bit AM GF.ST.
M ilmington, Jan. 21,1 802.
tf
To Brewers.
O he rented, and possession given the
T
first of tenth mo. (October) next, a
large and convenient Brewery, with every
necessary apparatus in complete order, sit
uate in the borough of Wilmington. This
Brewery is well supplied with good water,
anti convenient to a good barley country.
As it is presumed that any person inclining
to rent would first desire to view the pre
mises, a further description is deemed un
necessary. The terms will be reasonable :
for particulars apply on the premises, or to
the subscriber at Abbotts and Showard'.t
brewery, Philadelphia.
Caleb Sheward.
7th mo. 19th, lbOO.
tf
»37- A quantity of good malt and casks
may be had of the present tenants.—A lot
of marsh, about two acres and a naif, lo let,
with or without 'he Brewe*v.
DR. DODDRIDGE'S
RISE AND PROGRESS
Of Religion in the Soul.
•jt/TR. ROBERT PORTER, of this town,
It I lias issued proposals for publishing the
above excellent Book, by suhscrip ion, on good
paper, and with a plain common sized type, at
the very low price of f!\'/ reals.
Perhaps, next to the Bible, this is the best
hook extant for private and family use....No one
is better calculated to awaken, convince and
convert sinners, and to conduct them in the
straight and narrow path to lleaver, ; a, doubt
less tue experience «»1 many can witness.,.No oi.e
is more highly esteemed by pious people of all
denominations, a* ts abundantly evident from
the numerous editions it lias passed through both
in tliis country and Europe.
As the proposed price is only half the sum h
is now selling for tv. most of onr Book-sto r es, it
will he seen, that neither the Printer, nor any
persons who promote tiie work, have any
ject in view, but the good of souls, and the glo
ry. of God.
it is presumed that every one who wishes for
the spiiitual rise »ud progress of religion in his
soul, ot 1 rs tamily, will subscribe, anti
OWll
dial all friends of religion will encourage the
work.
Ricommendation by Rev-Cattle Presbytery.
Whereas ROBERT PORTER, has issued
proposals for printing Dr. Doddridge's Rise and
Progress of Religion in die Soul, at a veiy low
pi ice.
Resolvid, That the Presbytery do recommend
so the people under their care, to subscribe for
aid ex cellent Book.
September ;), 180p.
urt of inUic.us uni mutig
For t h c pn ven lion a in!
rcomm tin'll tl
liant fivers is
Lee's Anti-Billious Pills.
Prepared by Richard Lee and San Baltimore.
Perfons wifhing to purchafe .this valuable
medicine are requefted tobe part-cular 11 en
qu ring for Lee's Anti-Ili/lious Pills, put up in
wooden boxes, having on the outfide wrapper
the fignature of Richard Lee & oon—this is
ecefsary as there arc other pills of the fame
II
name.
The operation of thefe highly esteemed pills
Is perfectly mild, and the experience of thou
sands lias proved, they may be used in vtrye
situation in life without the lea-t inconveni
encc or damage.
They are admirably adapted to carry off ?u
perfluous bile, and prevents its morbid secre
tions—to restore the appetite, produce a regu
lar habit of the body, promote free perspiration,
and thereby prevent cold-, fo ohen attended
with fatal confequences to ti e lives of thou
fands—and fcldouj, if ever, fail to remove a
cold, if taken on its first appearance. Hahi
tual costivencfs, and its opposite,
are remov
ed hy their tvholefome influence, as alfo those
diseases arising from them, head-aches and
Jicknessat the stomteb.
It isalmoft unnecefl'ary to state, that on the
regular habit of the sustain, the health of man
kind depends. To conduce to this all-import
object, perhaps no medicine was ever mure
ant
generally fucce.-sful than thefe pills —they
tu
ver do haem, and at least nine times out of ten
afford relief to thole who ufe them for the pur
pofes for which they arc intended.
With the most perfect confidence we re -1
commend thefe pills to the public, and will
only further add, that their operation is al
ways pleafant, and that they leave nothing of
that coftivvnefs behind them too often attend
ing medicines defigned forfimiJar purpofes.
Ten years have jullified us in stating thefe
facts, during which we have had a very este
five cud conftantly incrcaftng fale for this truly
valuable nied cine.
Suld by Mathew R Lockerman,
Bookseller,
Next above the Bank of Delaware, Market
Streer, Wilmington, Delaware.
Aug. 1809 -
TO THE LADIES
ofe faces and complexion are injured wth
Freckles, Pimple?, Flack worms, Tan
or
Ayburn, King worms, Prickly lient, See.
To those persons is recommended,
Lee's Persian Lotion,
A certain remedy for removing tliofe difa
greeable barrier:- to beantv, the proprietors
with the most fac ed regard to truth, and the
credit of tliel'e medicine- - allure the afflicted,
that all the different appearances above enu
merated, are in a fliort time subdue ! by wet
ting the parts affected, with this pleafant fluid,
according to the directions on each bottle.
Perlons therefore who regard, either what
is due to th mfelvcs, or the favour and opinion
of the world, who can distinguiih between the
comeiinels of health, and the deformity of dif
eaf;-, and who can weigh the advantages which
belong to, an ' are infe; arable from an enga
ging appeara; ^e, to wh ch perhaps, they
tiietnfelves, have by nature, the ftrongeft
claims are feriouflv allured, that thefe advan
tages, fo far as belong to a good ik n, are to
be obtained by the ufe of Ins Lotion, however
violently they may happen to be afflicted.
inflead of the ftndious, and debilitating
courfe- of medicines, which patients went
through formerly, and which, perhaps, tiny
are dill too frequently obliged to undergo, it
i newfound, that the greatefl number ofthele
complaints, are more ceitainly, and fpeedily
lenioved by the nie of local remedies merely,
than tliej ever we e by a contrary courfc.
LEE'S LOT (ON.
Is celebrated among the fafliionahle through ut
Europe, as an invaluable cofmetic, perfectly
innocent and fafe, free f- ont corrofive and re
peilent minerals (the haft-of other lotions) and
of unparalelled efficacy in p eventing and re
moving blenti -hes m the face and skin, of every
kind, it operate- mildly, without impedi 'g
that natural, nfenfible perfpiratit n, wh ch is
fo eflential to health, yet its effects arefpeedy
and permanent, rendering tiie fkin -'tlicatelv
foft and clear, improving the complexion and
re toring the b : oom of youth. ->old at the
Bookfiori* of Matthew Lockerman.
Aug if, 1 P 09 .
n-y- Each article lias on the outside wrapper the sig
Perso
nature uf RICHARD LEE A SON "
ot at
be imposed upon.
ending to tiie above, are liable t
{Notice
I S hereby given, to ad whom it may
concern
that application will be made to
• lie Gen
eral Afl'embly of rhe Ante of Delaware at their
next fellion at Dover, for an aft authorizing
them ro bank oft', Hop and drain tiie waters,
mardi, low lands and cripples of the North
Weft Bianch of Duck Creek, at or near Mr.
Edward Roberts's farm, in Thoroughfare
Appoquimink hundred, Nmv-Caftic
Neck,
county and ftatc of Delaware.
John Fenncmore,
John Taylor,
Thomas Eniory.
3 m
Aug. !?.
IVILMING TON COLLEGE.
rpHB Trustees of Wilmington College
take pleasure in being able to announce
the public the revival of the Latin school
to
iu this institution, under the immediate
care of Mr. Bigelow and general «uperin
tendance of the Rev. Dr. Read. The heal
thy situation of Wilmington, its character
for morality, the goodness of its market
and choice of best boarding houses, joined
'o th# evidence of Mr- Bigelow's capacity
as a leather, and the long and justly esta
blished reputation of Dr. Read as a success
itH preceptor, all concur to recommend this
»eminary to the attention of Parents and
Guardians, anxious to promote the educa
tion and improvement of the youth intrust
ed to their care, espscially when they
art
further assured that the other departments
of the College are provided with tutors ful
Iv adequate to their appointments, and o.
unexceptionable moral characters
By order of the Board,
o
ROBERT HAMILTON,
3
EBENEZER A. SMI I'll,
5
JOHN RUMSK.Y,
WILLIAM PIUTE,
%
July 3ß, WQ9,
NOTIEC
TS hereby given to the Electors of New
castle County, who are qualified to vote for
Members of the General Assembly, that an
Election will be held at the Court house in
the Town of Nev.'-Castle, at the same time
and in the same manner as Senators and
Representatives for the said County are e
lected, to choose as Commissioners of the
Levy Court and Court of Appeal for said
County, one good and substantial Freeinil
der in the Hundred of Christiana, to sup
plv the vacancy occasioned by the rrmova
John Warner, one good and substantia
Freeholder in the Hundred of Whiteclay
creek, one good and substantial Freehold
in the Hundred of Pencader, one good -
er
and substantial Freeholder in the Hundred
of Red-Lion, and one good and substantial
Freeholder in the flundiedof St. George's
—to supply the places of Thomas Philips,
Morgan Jones, Anthony Higgins t,li
vid Stewart, whose seats have become va^
cant by the expiration of terms,
HUGH \Y. R11CHIE, C. P.
August 30, 1 309 .
lOt
For Sale,
^AT tiie Book-Store of M- S. I-ockf.h m ax,
Weems' Life of Wa-lriiigtoo, containing
a turn} of information and amusement.*
An interesting history of tiie Knight's Tem
plars, their origin, character and persecution.
The history of the decline and fall of the Ro
man Empire, by Edward Gibbon ; containing
memoirs of his life and writings.
Patriotic sketches ol belaud, written in Con»
naught, by Miss Owenson.
Poetic Trifles, by John Henry Mills, come*
dian.
The Wild Irish Girl, by ijiss Owenson.
Montalbcrta novel ; Armenian or Ghost Seer;
Jo-eph Andrews; Roderick Random ;• Chai lotte
Temple; the Drown'd Wife; the Vicar of
Wakefield; Blair's Lectures; Goldsmith's
Rome ; Jess's Surveying; Jackson's Book-keep
ing ; the Clerk's Magazine; and a great variety
o( histories, voyages and travels, day-books,
journals and ledgers, and writing-hooks of every
description ; writing paper, slates, scales and
dividers, quills, inkstands, wafers, See. Sc c.
* That scientific author speaking of the Trench
Indian wars about the time of Braddock's defeat
describes the effect tiie news had in England thus : —
«■ Swift as the broad-winged packets could Hy a
cross the deep, the news was carried to England.—
Its effects there was like that of a stone rudely liuried
against a nest of hornets. Instantly, from centre to
circumference, all is rage and bustle.The h ; v* re
sounds with the maddening insects ; dark tumbling
from their cells they spread the hasty v.ing, and
nhviH whizzing through the air. they vivbh to find the
foe Just sn in the sea-ruling island, from queens
house to nle-house, from hing to cockney, ail we
fierce
for hght. Even '.lie reu-nosed porters, where they
met; bending under their burdens, would stop, hill
hut, in the streets, to talk A' England's wrong* j
and. as they talked, their fiery snouts were seen to
grow more nery still, and more deform, Then
Dirowing their packs to the ground and leaping into
the attitude of boxers, wkh sturdy arms .tcress and
rough black jaws stretched out, they bend forward to
the fancied fight! 1 he frog-eating tee, in shirtlcss
rutiles and long lank emt, seems to give ground 1 then
rising in their might, with fire striking eyes 'hey press
hard upon him, and coming in, hand and foot, with
kick and cuff and many a hearty curse, they shew the
giggling crowd, how damn 'em! they woufci
I hump the French."
September 6, 1809.
James Gardner,
R F.SPECTFULLYinforitis his friends
and the public that he has removed
his store to the east side ot Market-street,
door above Sparkman & Grubbs, (near
one
ly opposite the post-office) where he lias
opened a large assortment of elegant Drf
Goods among which are.
Blue,black,biowu,Arab, Marseilles quiltings
coi beau, bottle green, I - ustia.ts and jeans
grey, and dark mixed Lute strings
superfine cloths Sinshaw and Manta«
Carssimeres silks
Bennet's patent cord Silk & york tan gloves
Coatings and flannels Bandanna and Madias
Forest cloths handkerchiefs
Velvets and constitution Camiuci's hair shawl*
CO k1s Checkered and striped
Bevercens linens
7-8 and 4-4 Irish linens Damask shawis
blue &r yeilow nankeens Rus«ta&dowlas linen.*
Wide aiid narrow cotton Rattinets&bombazctt»
cassi meres Reel & green bockinf
Chintzes and callicoes baize
Cambrick and common Brown hollands
dimities Suspenders
Calimancoes Umbrella* & parasols
Durant and Jones' spin- Black sati..s and Bo
ning rentines
Cotton and worsted ho- Scissors&pen-kni«B
Silk hose
si er y
Gilt Sr plated buttons
Colored,chamLray,cam
Oil cloths
brick, jackanet, mull
Trunks
mull, India, British,
Morocco Sr kid slices^
book,£ur r ah,bufta, &
See. &e,
leno Muslins
N. B. Country Storekeepers supplied on th*
lowest terms far cash or the usual credit.
James
