The following decree has been received
bv a commercial house in the city o{ New
Yotk, from the American house at St. Pe
tershurgh, with a request chat it may be
published for :he information of Merchants
generally, and accompanied hv the assur
ance that its provisions will be rigidly en
forced ; at the same time the government
will give everv indulgence and facility to the
neutral vessel conforming »hereto.
Petf.hs - ar.ti, June 14.
" It is universally known how firmlv
Russia has endeavored for ages to protect
»he »racle of neutrals during the ivar carried
on hv European powers; it is notorious,
■wih what courage that Empire has shelter
ed »hv interests of trading nations from the
fur" of the war. True to these unalterable
prir.cifii-s, we entertained a hope that dur
ing 'he present rupture with England, the
trade with allied nations would also offer
no motive to them of a different direction.
But the experience of last year has convin
ced us that the envoiv has found means to
misuse neutral bottoms for the benefit of
his trade, and we feel accordingly obliged
to adopt the following measures, in order
to prevent it in future.
" 1. Every captain whs enters any of our
ports, is bound to prove his ship or vessel
to be neutral property by the passport, the
bill of sale, and the log book, and the cargo
to be sold by the charter party, the hill of
lading, his own declaration, and a certificate
of the origin of the goods, in cases where
the whole or part of the cargo belongs to
the captain or agent, and the ship has set
•ril from America or the West Indies, or
is bound for those ports. Should any of
those documents be wanting, the captain
shall immediately leave th.e port, and not
be permitted to décharge the cargo.
" II. Ships in port, laden with goods
wh'ch can be proved to be the production
of anv enemv's country, shall be detained,
the goods declared confiscated, and sold
puhlieklv in behalf of the crown. If the
goftrlh amount to more than one half of the
cargo, not only tile lading hut the ship shall
be d eclarvd confiscated.
A pasport given hv a neutral,
" III.
frientllv, or a lied power will not he suds
cient for ihe justification of the captain, if
any circumstances appear which do not a
gree with the passport, or if the name of the
ship mentioned in the passport does not a
gree with that found in the other papers of
the ship, unless it clearly appears that the
pap-rs have been duly signed bv persons
having the proper authority, in which case
the difference in the names shall not make
against the captain.
" IV. The passport given to the captain
shall tint be aclitv wlcdgetl legal, if the ship
supplied with it shall not have been, at die lime
specified, in the pori in the name of which the
pa,sport »s given.
" V VVii,.n any s'iii-, 'u ercirgo, captain,
at'-l more than one thiul of the enw, sh.,li be
sub-ects if an hostile power, or when on hoard
a"y ship there shall he no muster toll, signed
bv ;h.- officers of the neutral place from which
tb - «Ido s .ile t, the Ship and cargo shall be
declared confiscated t»
the use of the crown,
bu» th
rews shall ho set at liberty.
If the pa; ujurt produced by the cap
.. v
tahi s'vaP be f 1 e, cr forged, the ship and car
l's de «red confiscated to »lu* use of
go sii,u
the
I'c cr.ptiiin delivered
*iT':
cr to
dost as a forger. The
justice to ue » .'oc.ee'let
crew so o' hr set a*.liberty.
IV V''. v fitn in any slt'pdouble documents
of.d'lffv.ni import nr- found, the ship and
sli'Jl tie confiscated to the use
f the
car.
If the captain shall endeavor to defend
cro
himself, but bring no sufficient proofs, the ship
shall lie detained, and time, if requested, be
granted to the captam to ptoctire them from
the place of his departure. If at the expiration
of the unie granted, he produces no proofs,
tht sliip and cargoshall he confiscated.
" V111. Every ship not built by a fiiendlv
power shall not he considered as neutral, unit*
ss
it can be legally proved by its papers that it
was
bought or transferred hclort the declaration of
war ; if this does not appear, the slop and
cargo shall be confiscated to the use of the
crown.
' IX. If the master or captain of a ship shall
be a native of a hosiile nation, and have
pass
ports front a
neutral or friendly power, these
shall not avail him, unless they prove that he
nechnie the subject of, aud resided with a neu
tral power b. ore the declaration of war. On
the faila
fthis picnf the ship aud cargo shall
bt; cor.".'
. 'I to tile use of the crown.*'
yaj.M rim national intbli.icienc ait.
The NEW WORLD.
No. I,
As. enquiry INTO the National Charac
tiie United
TIR or THE
pee or
States or America.
!_oe real chancier of everv nation is a
; object of interest!:*
consideration. Tu
ihciuseiv'.s it
i$ plain, that an enquiry into
iheii circumstanr
s and qualities as a poll
lirai famiiv, will
h
ive me.iy of the preciou»
consequences of .vcy-examination. To the I
rest of mankind, numerous monitions a
gainst evil or inducements to good mav be j
offered by those, who faithfully cornier! j
such investigations.
The present character of the people of
the Untied States of America, as the only
independent civilized nation ol this quarier
of the world, is peculiarly important and in
teresting. The northeru part of the Ame
rican continent which they inhabit, is much
larger than aH Europe—than all Christen
dom—than all the other parts of the civiliz
ed world. Their dominions are united in
one connected body, c nhining the glowing
legion of ihe cane with those, where the ri
gor of the north forbids vegetation through
half the year.
Their inland waters invite them to an
riy familiarity with the marine cradles,
r.i
train them as in their primary nautical
schools, and draw many of them on to meet
all the changes of the inconstant oce.,n. The
facilities of modern navigation, acquired bv
habit and improved by all the relative arts,
have established the most intimate connex,
ion between us, the younger children of ci
1 polity, and all the people of the old
VI
world.
Their woods and forests d-aw many of
the United Americans to the active chase,
armed often against beasts of prey, teach
ing them atones die use of defensive arms,
and to bear privations and fatigue, unknown
to .the mass of people of the European
states.
The hardy exertions of agriculture often
extend far beyond tile hoe, the plough and
the harroty. The American reprover is
frequently required to rear his own build,
ings for man anti beast. He must conquer
the forest and the morass—laborious though
gainful preparations for productive cultiva
tion. Jn many of the states, the judicious
agricultures! is always an improver. The
most antient families, and those of the first
intelligence, fortune and standing, as well
as foreign emigrants of the latest years, are
engaged iu the settlement aud improvement
of contiguousjor adjacent forests. Where
lately every production of nature flourished
in wilderness, there now the garden, the
meadow, and the forest smile. This stea
dy and extensiv* progress of ameliorating
industry and skill, affects the mind, the bo
dy, and the character of man. Useful and
necessary rural improvements offer to all
the Americans a prudent anti gainful em
ployment for surplus income, producing of
ten an habitual course of moralizing indus
try and economy. Anxious parents, incoun
try life, see before them their children's
prospects of rising in the world, where in
lant settlements, increasing with our honest
labor, pervade the land. The existing ge
neration have c li ved numerous countries
and several of the states out of the howl
ing of the wilderness- Thus are the Ame
ricans under the favor of Heaven, the crea
tors of their own dwellings, thrirown farms,
their own cities, towns and villages, their
own goodly country and all that is therein.
COLUMlilANUS.
From the Same.
A Memoir on the subject of a Navigation Act, inclu
ding the encouragement of the manufactory of
boats ami sea vessels, and the protection of ma
raies.
File commencement, progress, magnitude
and prospects oj the mercantile shipping
of the the United States.
A recurrence to the ancient writings,
which relate to the colonial establishments
in North America, will prove to the candid
and judicious examiner, that the founders j
of these provinces, of whatever nation,
which now composes the United States, j
took, for the tune, very enlarged and pro
speettve views of political economy.
In the course of that steady prugrtss to
the present happy condition, which a here
ficept Providence has dispensed to us, the
fathers of our country snd§tt s attentive ob
servers beyond the Atlantic, have constant
ly agitated the interesting subject of the po
1 rota tue omh of this country to the me
moi able «pocha of ,6. its political econo
my was modified by the hand of a jealous,
in erested and powerful brother. It was
fo gotten, or rather, perhaps, amidst a cloud
of passions, not perceived, that each of the
American sections was, at strict constitu
tional and public law, and in substantial
justice, a genuine co-crd/nate state of a fe
derate emptre —united only by means of one
common executive government—the small
as independent of the great, as the great of
the great members of that mixt monarchical
union .
Untlet these circumstances, the people of
this country constantly observed, consider
eti and judged well, in matters relative to
their political economy. Their complaints
againtt the evtls, touching that object, im
posed upon them by the elders of the fami
iy were founded in tfnc wisdom, Us well as
Is. •siantial justice.
I he public necessities, in the revolution
j ary war, entirely suspended the practical
adherence to the right theory on this sub.
jertj but there are many evidences cl a se
rinus attention to that theory, among the
public acts and disquisitions of those times,
No sooner had peace removed the oc
casion of this wise temporary suspension,
than the legislators of the several states, the
framers of all commercial laws at that lime,
commenced measures for the permanent es
tnblishmcnt of a system of political econo
my. It is true that these laws were imper
fect, and often faulty, from the conflicting
efforts of agricultural, commercial and ma
nufacturing, and n l eastern, middle, south
ern, Atlantic and western economists; from
resentments anil partialities in respect to fo
reign powers; and, above all, from the exer.
cise of duties concerning national and extra
territorial objects, by worthy, but zealous
representatives of the interests of towns
and countries, or, in other words, for want
ol powers in the general govertnent of that
time.
A memorable evidence of the convictions
of some of ihe most aide, enlightened and
affectionate fathers of our country, upon this
subject, will be found in the salutary and
auspicious proceedings of the legislature of
Virginia, in their spring session of 1786,
which produced the commercial convention
at the city of Annapolis in 'he foil »wing au
tumn, the federal convention of 178", and
our present invaluable constitution. This
precious instrument, which has not yet re
ceived any amendment of its powers in re.
lation to commerce, is predicated on the
propriety, utility and necessity of a system
of trade laws, founded on correct and fix
ed principles.
In digesting laws.for that branch of our po
litical economy, which comprehends
txter
nal commerce and oav gatiott, the coasting
trade and the fisheries, tile United States
will find themselves instructed bv the expe
rience of a quarter of a centurv,
as a coun
try in peace, during the last sixteen years of
which they have been in a state of neutrali
ty. Many, and precious, it is believed,
are the lessons which our statesmen may
derive from that extrac dinary time.
It is ascertained that the construction
and employment of sea vessels are general
ly profitable occupations ; that they are
nu
cessary to agriculture ami defence, and be
neficial, and indeed requisite, lo manufac
tures.
ll will be remembered, that those occtt
pstions were commenced in the earl- s ages
of our existence, grew with our prospur.tv,
contributed largely to its increase, and have
risen sometimes in a natural, steady and re
gular manner, and sometimes with surpris
ing ripidity, to a greater heighi than those
of any other country, in proportion to our
wealth and numbers, proving at once the
fitness of the territories and products of tile
Untied States, and the capacities of their
citizens for ship building, fishing, trade and
navigation.
It is a truth which ought to be most ac
curately appreciated, that a very large part
of our recent benefits from commercr, have
been produced by the wars that have
ai isen
out of tht French revolutions, of which the
neutrality of our country has enabled us
greatly to profit ; atul we ought carefully to
remember, that the earliest French révolu
lion having affected the ytars '88, and VJ,
in the time of the meeting of the notables,
and their first colonial disturbances, the
whole of our commerce under the existing
constitution of the United States, mutt be con
j sidered as that cf a fortunate neutral whose
\Jlekl of employment was at first n/lurtred,
j and afterwards constantly extended by the
increase of the number of the bell-"emits
till at leu th it included all the civilized and
commercial states, except ourselves.
»I we compare tin- ilntm use present ton
nage of our piivatc- ships, with the greatest
exports of our own produce and manufac
tutes, and if we consider the moderate
quanttties r.f foreign commodities, which,
in a w "°° of P««, "e ever hav* or are
ever likeiv to be permitted to carry for oth
er nauons, we ma, safely conclude, that
our
merchants and ship builders can provide
for the transportation of all our meïchan
dise, foreign and American, to transmarine
markets. The same facts will further prove
that, if we could have the monopoly o ? f our
own trade, it would not employ die vessels
we build and own. It ts, therefore
too
probable, that, on the return of
peace, our
present vast property in ships, worth per.
haps, fifty millions of dollars, will languish
tn our own hands. At least, the noble ma
At least, the noble
nulaciure of ships is like lo be arrested in a
very inconvenient degree.
It is prudent lo rememher that severe tri
als to all. who were concerned in the con
struction and employment of ships, which
were ingeniously arid effectually created by
the cnlurcemem of the old, and the forma
t'uni of lir laws of navigation |>y ih c Eu
ropean states, in the six distressing years
which preceded the adoption of the federal
constitution, '1 hose serious times clearly
prove to the anxious and enlightened
friends of American trade, that our present
tonnage will induce similar distresses,
un.
happilyproportioned to its vast increase, im«
less the wisdom and goodness of a parental
government shall save us from the evils
which may come. An ambitious navy has
become a favorite object thro'out Europe,
and it is now every where perfectly undci.
stood, that private ships are the cradles of
the marine nursery. Ingenuity and rigor,
even beyond those of former times,
must
be expected to distinguish the formation
and execution of foreign navigation laws.
The unfavorable effects of such obvious
measures, on the builders and owners of
American ships, will be sure. Seriously
torwarned by past times, and by the clear
prospect of those to come, the faithful citi
zen of the United Slates turns with an af
fectionate confidence towards his own
. gov.
crûment for measures of effectual and time
ly provision against avoidable distress.—
The mercantile shipping of the United
States are the vehicle* to transport the pro
duce of the land to foreign markets, and to
import the supplies of the people and gov
ernment. If our merchants and ship buil
dets should be exposed to ruin by a bad
system of political economy, the owners
and cultivators of the American soil will
surely and deeply suffer with them.
If foreign governments would agree to the
unhtrsal freedom of trude, this country would he'
required, by prudence and by justice to the
mass
of its citizens, to make tile experiment of such
a state of things. Our government, in that case,
might say to the merchants, seamen and ship
hniiders, the field of competition lies open bc
fr> you. Rut the state of tilings is very diffe
rent. Torcign nations are all now jealous ami
intelligent rivals, and will become unfeeling
nw
nopolizcrs, if they can lull, deceive
or coerce
their improvident neighbors.
If we consider the history of
our own com
merce and that ol ancient nations, if we duly ap
preciate the utility ol navigation and trad» to the'
prosperity ol agriculture and manufactures, and
particularly if we reflect
the commercial avt*
dny which has distinguished the commencement
of the nineteenth century, we shall not probably
fail lo be convinced, that " a vise system of low*
to support trail/■ and mercantile manufactures , di
gesttu in the form of a navigation act," has real
ly become absolutely necessary.
It is respectfully suggested, that the most sa
lutary measure, which can be adopted, will
probably be the immediate commitment of this
important subject for deliberate and profound in
t estimation. Rut though it sv.ll be necessary to
await, with respect, the result of such on ex
amination, it may he useful, here, to display,
oy a lew examples, the nature of the provisions,
which existing evils and impending dangers stem
to require.
Ta hr c/a/tinurd.
From the Samp.
On thf impolicy of English and French Rutrictio
So
on trade.
> There can be no doubt but that both Qrcat
Britain and h ranee have acted with the utmost
inpolicy in the restrictions imposed by them
severally on commerce. Anation so ascend
ant as Britain in naval strength, in manufac
tures and commerce, would have best advanced
her interests by removing every shackle to the
irecdo it ol trade. Jn this way the greatest de
mand won Id have been created lor lier goods
and ships, which would, in all human probabi
lity have been increased by the activity of our
competition. Our habits ai well as ambition
made us so decidedly an agricultural
atton,
that it may be assumed
as certain, that we
should for a
century at least have principally
employed.our resources in that occupation, but
lor the trammels unjustly imposed upon fo
reign nations ; i n consequence of which we
should have raised a larger surplus of raw ma
terials and consumed a larger portion of Brit
ish manufactures. Let us dwell for a few mi
nutes on this topic, and estimate the probable
gam ol C». Britain by an adherence to such a
policy. Jn the year 1790 there were imported
into and consumed in the U. S. foreign com
modities to the amount of sixteen millions ol
dollars. In the
. . . year * 8 °0 the amount rose to
tlnrty-lour pultons; since this period the in
crease has risen in an equal ratio. Front these
data it might, perhaps, be safe to conclude that
the quantity ot foreign goods consumed in the
U. S. would double in every ten years, which
would in twenty years produce a fourfold con
sumption. As, however, onr consumption in
a great measure depends on onr ability, and as
*mr ability has been very much increased by
the peculiar state of Europe, which during the
last sixteen years has considerably augmented
the demand for our raw materials,'we shall on
1), assume the duplication ol the consumption
ol foreign goods in twenty years OITfte ag
gregate of loieign goods consumed we know
that more than a halt come from England and
her dependencies. We shall in our estimate
take them at only one half. . The following
statement will present the prospective results
lor a century.
Consumption of British commodities in tlte.
L . States
In l'JOI,
1",900 099
7
