^-Kj3»»iavevr
^Intelligence
Messina Gazette of July
Extract from thc
31 1809.
A vessel under a neutral flag from CivU
\r 1 - r.irnUhrtl us with the copy
*" ' f h , ,a ba • ■ , u:„ holiness Pius
ta
of a declaration issu , .
rth, ;a, the t.me of the. sacri>g^ m- on
uf all his dominions, and ot tne piuriiuu >
of the churchi and likewise of the sentence
of excommunication issued against Bona
parte and his accomplices, on tile 10th ot
Tune; which acts of the.pope are herewith
published to render them more generally
■TOWU throughout the catholic world.
Pi 1 3 POP£V11.
„ , . v ' ,• „f in., fops of the
1 he tnsas.rou '■gS "
Apostobc See arc at engt 1 1 ' I- .*• '.
After suffering t.G violent an. lmqui
spoliation of the fairest a* most cotisitte*
raole portion o! our dominions, we now be
hold ourselves deprived entirely, under un
worthy pretexts and with the most grievous
injustice, of all our temporal"sovereignty,
with which our spiritual independence is
closely connected. This consolation ac
romomies us " under the pressure of this
compan ■ , • , , u-,. n
severe persecution, - * '
surred lor any wrong done to the cmperot,
or to 1'ranee, which has been .1 ways re
oliject of our tender fatherly solicitude; nor
on account of any worldly political artifice;
but because we would not betray our duties
•r our conscience.
No one, who professes the Catholic reli
gion, and much less he, who presides over
and is principally hound to announce it, can
displease God lor the sake ol pleasing men.
Bound moreover to God,; and to the
Church, to transmit our rights whole and
entire, we protest against this new spolia
tion, and declare it null and void.
We reject with t!,e most determined re
solution thc assignment ol any allowance in
tended for us or the members of our col
Ugc (of cardinals) by the emperor of the
V reach.
Wc should he overwhelmed with dis
grace in the sight of the Church, i! we sub
mitted to receive our subsistence Iront the
hands of the Usurper of her patrimony. _
We resign ourselves entirely to divine
providence, and to the devotion of tile faith
ful servants ol God, and shall he satisfied
piour.lv to conclude the hitter career of our
painful lile.
We adore with profound humiliation th,e
We invoke
inscrutable designs ol God.
his rm-rcy over all our good subjects, who
will he nftv.lv s our joy and our crown ; and
after having discharged, in these most d:s
ed
tressiag'ciriutnxtances, our duty, we exhort
them to preserve, in all integrity, their rtli.
and faith, and with sighs and tears be
on
tween the porch and the altar, to unite them
selves with us in supplication to the su
preme father of light, that he would graci
Oislvbe pleased to woik a change in the
wicked designs of our persecutors. Given
at our Quiniial Apostolical palace, this lOih
June. 1809.
PIUS POPE VII.
u.s.
in
Conclusion of thc Sentence of Excommunica
tion.
PIUS POPE VII. •
By authority of the Almighty God, and
of the Saints Peter and Paul, we declare
v«u, Napoleon Bonaparte, and all your ac
complices (co-operators) in the act, which
now executing, to have incurred
vou are
the censure of excommunicaliop ; under
which by our apostolical letters, cotempera
neous'y published and affixed at the places
in this city, we declare all those to have fal
len, who, since the forcible invasion of this
city on the 2d of February, 1808, have com
mitted the violences against which, not only
our successive secretaries of state by our
orders, but we ourselves have protested in
j
t wo consistorial allocutions (discourses') of
j
the 16th of March, and llth July 1808; and
the same penalty attaches to all mandai les,
advisers, and all others who
supporters,
have executed themselves, or procured the
»xccution of the above-mentioned usurpa
tions and violences. Given at Rome at
the church of E. Maria Major, June -10,
1809.
HUS POPE VII.
O.
Jr 1 HUM Tin: natio:
.1. I NTLLI.KiLNC ICH.
DrfilVt
\Te. Jn
''• r 'A . iiiniitihtvrJion,
No. MU.
r..
hiduM *,—Tti illustrating thc
cur ami measures of an a.hninUtration this
rh
will aS -
command attention.
Whether
to
wc consider thc relative ronditiun of the abori
gines and tiie whites and the reciprocal claims of
each on the other, tue influence which the
ire Intent of the former has on national charac
ter, or the pçé iiliar diinci
s v;l»u Si h \\e ir.va
ur intercourse with them, we
nuclei
r sub;;
he Sàth'iici! that this branch of authority
fchflil
i
raîU' for a spec;«
i of t
ely possessed by
Xu.
n.;c!
at this c];iy, to vindicate
if !3 net Reccfifitp
ih j lEf of tli t
•d
* -cs of «sir country,
H
1 or !» prove l'nît, où a comparison withaoyotntr
savane nations, they will he found to bave pos
sessed superior traits ot' moral and intellectual
character. It is sufficient-for our present pur-.
posetosijr, that in the estimation of the whole
community, eiOept tèat portion of it which from
their position is exposed to perpetual collisions of
interest or passion* they arc considered as
en
titled to all that justice and humanity which arr
compatible with a gradual encroachment on and
nf ^ grounds. There c:in be no
0 f t he moral right of a civilised commuai
^ as ,, r 0 g resses j n „umbers, to appropriate
to the use of its citizens, the tracts of land in the
p rev j ous occupation of savages; because the
ver y couJitinn in which the latter ar« implies
their total inability to rendev it the instrument of
that beneficence which it was intended by the
author of nature to bestow on the human race.
But, while this right in the abstiact is justly
viewed as indisputable, il is nevertheless subject
to conditions and limitations which arc equally
It is the
oa the civilized community,
( j ut y 0 y ,| 1( , | illter t0 possession of it, if
j, oss ,ble, by pacific means, and even to make
considerable sacrifices of their immediate interest
secure this end; if compelled eventually to
resort to force, to apply it in such a way as to
inflict the least possible injury on the savages ;
and, above all, once possessed of it, to admims
ter ju»:ice with an equal hand to tne white and
re l people, giving the latter, so far as practica
blc, an equivalent for their land, in the arts ami
Power thus
( . om|Virt , „ ltfmluccil among them,
dispensed, will aim at elevating instead of de
j )rt ., s j„j, their situation, at increasing their hap
pi n esa instead ofdnving them by peKccution to
despair, and at cherishing instead of extermina
ting their race. To effect these desirable ends,
it is necessary to inspire tiicin with two senti
ments—a conviction of your power and of your
justice.
Now, it will be found lira review'of the
measures in relation to this point adopted during
the administration of Mr. Jefferson, tint these
two cardinal ends have been fully secured, and
that it is principally owing to those measures
that a complete pacification of the Indians lins
been accomplished. Durim? the administrations
of bis predecessors, either an active warfare was
carried oil with them, or in the intervals uf a
hollow peace the frontiers weie constantly ex
posed to alarm. Ever since lie assumed the
Pisidency, all warfare has erased, and alarm on
the frontier been dissipated. This lias not arisen
hum any abandonment ot our pretensions,
On
tiie coutraiy we have during this period acquired
more land than in an any equal antecedent peri
od, and our western population has advanced
with greater rapidity than it ever previously did.
These happy and beneficent effects have flowed
from tiie enlightened and just policy of a cabinet,
intimately acquainted uilh human nature, and
bem upon exercising power with a single eye to
I
tlie happiness of those on whom it was exercised.
The means pursued are in themselves extremely
simple ; so plain and obvious, that we
arc sur
lia
prised at their not having been universally appli
ed in die intercourse of civilized and savage
com
inimitiés. This surprise, however, is dispelled,
when we contemplate thc fatal agency of super
stition and a spoil of conquest in past ages.
Heretofore tlie sword has invariably opened the
power, and tiie fetters of superstition
w.tv to
hu,c unit irmly completed the victory,
Govern
' î ,
meurs wielded by soldiers and priests, havin'
despoiled the conquered of their property, have
concluded by attempting to deprive thc-n of the
consolations of their religion. In thc first result
they have generally succeeded; but scarcely ever
in tlie last. The religious sentiments, received
from our fathers, are
generally ■
oe-r to our
hearts, that we prefer a sacrifice of life to their
abandonment, and whatever outward conformi
ty, we may exhibit to the cree l of our conquei
ors, tiie conscience remains impregnable. \\ ith
ilie-e ideas, doubtless, on his mind, Mr. Jeffer
son has taken no pains to force upon the nations
tlie Christian religion ; be has suffered them
to
enjoy thc religion of their lathers. But he has
cone tli,it winch has entitled bun to their warm
en benedictions i he has sent among them such men
as Hawkins and Meigs; men beneficent, en
lightened and practical, who have taught them
t ie blessing ot propcity, and the advantages to
he reaped horn thc cultivation of agriculture and
tne aits. Under these auspices, the progress
they- have already made, is wonderful. Many
cf them till tiie ground, which they have enclo
j seel, raise fruit trees, and are industiiously
oe
j cupied in domestic in nut factures, for tli
e prose
cution ot all ol which they have been liberally
siq,plied with tiie means by thc agents appoint
cd hy the government. And in this
way, m tne
short period of eight years,
more substantia)
progress has been made in civilization, than can
be shewn by thc annas of the world to have
taken place in any other region in half a century.
I-et ignorance and tyranny, then, continue to
join in theory against philosophy,
While it is
directed to such beneficent objects ;
while it
seeks its highest gratification and finds its bright
est glory in increasing the mass of human hap
piness ; while it exhibits the new and illustrious
spectacle of reclaiming man by the arts from tlie
savage stale and increasing his felicity by the
comforts of civilization—it will continue entitled
to our highest reverence, and those who dispense
its blessings to out- warmest regard. -
of
The robber is generally the first to cry
out
" st °|) thief." This is an adage almost us old
as the world, and may be considered as illus
trating a native propensity of vice.
How happily docs this maxim, politically ap
plied, suit the present times ! The < pponents of
the administration charge the republicans with a
desire to embroil thc country in the complicated
horrors of a war with England—Why r Be
suffi desire ? No;.
Cause the republican.- nave a. v
hut because they themselves hope under this
calumny to cover their effort* to embroil their
country in a war with France. Y'.j/.v /. tIttir oh
j lX i ; to effect which their measures luve been
steady, persevering, sticonous.
The era at which their laboors to attain this
end commenced covers tlicir motives witii a blaze
ot light that, properly improved, must dissipate
all obsemity. That era was the French révolu
it was at that illustrious period, when ù
tion.
>,! twenty five millions of human beings
mtion
brokc their fetters and asserted the dignity of
freemen, that a deadly hatred was engendered,
which his sustained no ah itcineut even to the
Whence this hatred? From any
present clay',
we had then received from France ?
injury wine!
Nfi one pretends it.
From any dang-r with
? So far from this,
which rIic then menaced us
she was then the object of commiseration instead
of terror. No, it is not to these motives th it this
hatred is to be ascribed; but to the obstacles
which that revolution threatened to raise to the
gay and splendid h 'pcs of political aggrandise
ment that danced in no cisiant perspective lie
lore tlie enrapture I view id a set of men, who
from tiie beginning of the world have considered
thnnscFt as the legitimate rulers of nations,
io this b.i-ht vision of anticipated honours the
revolution, II successful, thretuened a total «lisso
I tit'on. It was then that this hotly ot men took
thur ground, from wnhjji they would h iv b-en
«'I«» «V'V« bfit ,or thc ""toward events
t at followed. .
. ,JU ' a »hört .period elapsed betöre England
joined the confederacy,, and tint insc-mtiv pro
dm.ed a new access,on »I strengm m tirs cou d, y
to the hatred ol France. I,core ton period the
enemies of the revolution were lew; and silent ;
this event at once a-Mcd greatly to ine.r numiier
ana em iolilcned the tunM. B di^h innit?m:e
. , •
instantly exerted, in al its rxieamve r.unih
was
^ J . .. ,
c.itions, throui^n almost every nore oi tnc co*n
„ • , ° . ) , , , .
mumtv. ir embodied into a pnulanx o.v! lours.
lv«i; u . . . , •
ü«ngli>n aj'cnt?, aristocrats or monarchists in
principle, merchants indebted in Kngland or!
those in the receipt of favours from her. This
body of men, livint; for tlie most paid in our
towns, rich, intelligent, active and restless, for
a time gave a tone to their politics and manners
bom which, indeed, they have not yet com-j
pletely recoveVed. This tone was extended into
the country and reached even the government it
S ' i.-„„i il,, , ,
l.ngland had been thc first to violate our ma.
c u i ,1
ritime lights. .She had no sooner lormed a treu
ty of peace, pledging hciself to respect our rhmts
as an independent nation, which she had ac
knowledgrd us to Lie, than slie commenced a
a
career of injustice towards tis, retaining the jio—
session of our foils and territory, instigating tlie
savages to the most merciless warfare, and prey
iiig upon our defenceless trade on ÿic ocean.—
I ins «cent of iniquity continued until the eel -
brated treaty negouated by Jay. At the w; j
moment w hen that treaty was on tlie eve ot rati- |
ficat.ou and alter its signature bv the pienii.o.en- i
lia fies of the two government's, she issuer! her t
provision orders, which without notice swept {
the ocean ot at least a moiety of our merchant j
During ail this time, wlwt was ttic ;
vessels.
conduct of b ranee towards us r She had then a |
powerful marine floating on rite ocean and con- !
tending with England for its empire. Did she j
.seize our vessels with notice, much less without j
' î , Â ? „£^? aV ;!' S ,"r |,U, *- C ' l Wi 'i' "n 'i"'' !
"fierai principle, that free snips should rr.dke *
free goods, she long continued to adhere to tins!,
term, although deeply prejudiced by its opera- j
A recurrence to officiai ilocuments will j
tion.
e-tablish these positions, and prove that, during j
the earlier periods of General Washington's ad-j
ministration, while thc conduct of England to- j
wards us was the topic of indignant complaint, !
that of 1-ranee was, in thc main, the subject oi j
approbation Excesses and even outrages were j
committed by her cruisers, but they were soon j
acKiiorvledged and reparation made tor them.
About thc close of General Washington's ad- !
ministration the scene changed, and Trance, gui- j
ded by erroneous counsels, listened to tlie intern- I
perate dictates of revenge. She perceived, or
iancied ih»r °he perceived, the poison of Hutirdi
mfin-nce diflnsing itsell over the whole surface of
our country. Hub this influence the identified
a mortal hatred to lu-iscif.
The example of En -
gland, winch she had beheld witii honor, S | K -
now hersell imitated, ami undet tlie hollow pre
text of retaliation, committed art extensive pil
lage of our vessels. The attitude, which Un
American nation took on that occasion, was ho
norable ; the sentiments it inspired were worthy
of an independent nation. France lcul injured
us, and resistance became a holy duty. The
virtue arid spirit ol tire people dictated résistance,
and we did resist.
But mark the tone and ton
duct ot that class of pçopie, who now, a« they
have long been, are streiiuou-lv by open or insi
dious means promoting hostilities with France.
to
is
Lock at the public prints of those days, peruse
it
the speeches of grave senators and flippant r epre
sentatives, attend to the language of die Secretary
of Stale intoxicated with power and elevation,
listen to the intemperate strains of President
Adams hiinsell ; and say whether the honest fer
vor of tlie times Was not exacerbated and enve
nomed by the most disgraceful hatred of
Fiance, and say whether this hatred did tun
spring from partiality , 0 England, and antipa
thy to tlie system of equal rights, whose
secu
my was the object, although unfortunately it
was not the result of the French revolution. 1
woind, says Senator Tracy, " arm every man,
woman, and child in America, against every
man, woman and child in France."
Pickering, (blush, Americans, for the na
of
tional degradation) in a state pa,, et-, alluding
a
to the l tench, exclaims " the tyger crouches
be,ore lie springs cn his prey," and President
A.Uiiiri '.1:m'.-'.f. •
tible honesty, condescends to use language in
the highest degree unworthy of his evaitn!
station. 11 y these menus, the national stnt;
ment was literally converted into a whirlwind,
and menaced, in its raging intolerance, to
sweep before it every barrier ol liberty. Alien
and sedition laws were iramed, the cockade ol
tefcror was mounted, mobs were embodied, a
vindictive denunciation pervaded every corner
of the country and silenced freedom of speech,
and the reign of terroi r as it was not more cm
phaticaily than truly styled, was in lull ti<
umpli. British tories und American aristocrats
exulted in the conviction tint they had gained
their darling object. Hut they ware mistaken,
It was reserved for the virtue of President
Adams, ahrmed at the snares laid for it. and
j p,-nimbly appalled at the precipice to which in
|,ad unwarily drawn the liberties of his cour.
try, to re-«ccupy indepen lent ground, and in
i|,e vei y teeth of his confidential counsellors, "o
|,tal the rupture with France. If these facts
are not sufficient to prove the eXistriicc of the
pu; y we have poiirtrayed, look at tile treu»
meut of this quondam f.iVoutite from that mi »
mr ,, u i,i u e , u> Hamilton was the first to tc
tomnl to wdte him down with his colossal pcif,
r> j„ co w |,, ( ;ii lie lias lud the full contents of the
v .; a | 0 f federat wrath showered down upon him.
A li; , el . al an ,j lei , ^,,„-.,1 llc .ily, in all its putt«,
was formed with Fracce. Huw was it received
ilUhis C01lnliy , V .'i,h universal approbation
by tlie republicans ; hut with di-tru.st ami «; -
« iion 1, V the pa*tv we arc pm,it:
,. y ....publican member in the Senate voted foi ,
w ; hl j t a y number 0 f lSlc (Vtbra! members
voted against its ratification, although it was
; u . (1 b Mcsws . Fd worth, i)avie and
iMlI1 .,. a t| „/ c disling.il.lic.lfcderal.sls. fan
,, ... ,,
there be a stronger argument, to prove the
.. , • r r , * , r% ,
lm. nest desire of a portion ol the lodera! partie.
. . ■.., 1 ?
-it i l eventh, to nave war with r rance r
r ... «-•
x'iir bix years from thib era, our aliatrs
• , T , J .. , , , ,
or! " Ki1 * ranee were undisturneu, and she e-.
mi aurmued us to an enjoyment, almos:
without restraint, of uvr colonial ytulo,—
1 his is not specified as a favo.r doue by her
| to ns. One nation ought never to expect a
iavor from another. All that we have ever
| demanded, or expected, has been justice_
j ; Jut p ranCL . hai J [ht . to perceive her
true interests, and not to forego them from
. ,. . , '
an loie lealousy or criminal emnitv to us.
l
. ,. . ,
an loie lealousy or criminal emnitv to us.
l .,
, U,d w f durl "S > llls P enod «perte:,ce
lhe 1'bcral treatment from hngland?—■
the contrary, it was dining this period
that above three thousand of our seamen
were impressed, that Pearce was murdered
at our very doors, and that successive ur
ders of council were issued legalizing an
iniquitous spoliation and seizure of our
j ds aud ,, wa# , h ,, s (hiU ■ ■
| . . , , , ■. '
i uul 1 out merchants, those meek and patient
t soul \ evcn lhe V callcd u P' ,n dle «Tavern,
{ ment in . the most clamorous strains lor its
j energetic interposition. At their cuii it did
; interpose and sent a special mission to I.
>n
| don. Stiil, however, our wrongs remained
! unredressed, our rights, cur interests, and
j our character continued to bleed at every
j pore,
! l£ "- 33 now *at France, unjustly and
* , , . , , J ' .
tins!, we adn,,t » ^olvcd to treat us m
j he •»"* W *Y we had heen so long treated
j F-ngland; aud forthwith launched those
j decress against oor trade which still endure
as a monument of her lolly, inflicting still
j greater injury upon herself than upop either
! us or her enemy 1 .
j fliese new occurrences ought to have t
j stablishcd a new era in national sentiment,
j v/e #houU as or>(! m have resolved to
k„,i ' rr r i , ,, , ,
! * e . MS ' b °' l T 1 C "8 1 >sh orders anil French de
j 'V c ^s.ioukl ^have Si.enccd the apg*
I either. We should have rejected
with disdain thtuplea of retaliation, as total
b' inapplicable to us, however applicable to
each other,
AVe should have rallied round
our own government as our only shield ;i
gainst danger, and. imitating the virtues of
-
our forefathers, have resolved
K -
to endure e
very privation of interest eventually to se
cure our rights and maintain our honor un
tarnished. Was this universally done by
us? No; and herein ts found another illus
tration, vivid as a sun-beam.
Thc republi
cans supported their government in its im
partial measures, although those
measures
are now generally allowed to have operated
more injuriously on France than Eng
even
giatul, and were more sensibly feit Its tlie
republican than the federal sections ol the
union. But did the party, we are delenia*
ting, act with the same patriotism?
No.
They began with traducing the
motives
and ended with opposing, even by physical
force, the
measures adopted ; they took
nart with, and even played in the hands of
the common enemy.
of
.Mr. Madison was called to the prcsiden-.
cy, and one of his first acts was the arrange
ment entered into with Mr. Err,!;
ine on the
it
part of the British government,
:r
1
greemenr fully restored our .ami tv
\V1U!
gland, and threatened
our
puace v,
France. 1 he party we are pourtravmg, as
might be expected, extolled it and ih
na
«t?"V
President to the skies,
The reDuhîicatiï»
were equally warm in the expression of their,
approbation, and demonstrated to the satis
laction of every reasonable
ir.'M':
