34.000. 000
J820,
68.000. 000 . .
1840,
136,000 000
1860 .
272.000. 000
1880,
540.000. 000
1900,
Minds unaccustomed to economical investiga
tions will be startled at these results, and may
perhaps laugh at them as visionary. But when,
patient examination, they shall find that in
on a
the year 1900 our population will be equal to
hundred millions, that the land in cultiva
one
tion will be at least four hundred millions, and
the total consumption of the (American people
exceed ten thousand millions of dollars in value,'
and that, consequently the British corfimodities
consumed here, large as they are represented,
«rill not surpass a tu entieth part of the aggre
gate consumption ; all astonisment will cease.
Such, then, is the proud attitude in which
the British government might have placed the
British nat on by adopting and adhering to ajust
and hberul policy as to us. Had she, by the
fortune of war, have been deprived of all her
colonies, and of the vast field which she might
elsewhere have found for her enterprise, still,
possessed of our good will and custom, she
■would have insured to heisrif the ingredients of
a steady and rapid, progress in, wealth, numbers
and power. By such a policy she would have
become the permanent store-house of mankind ;
she would have conciliated the regard of a na
tion, which will indisputably a century hence
he the most poweriul on the face of the globe ;
and she would have been the constant pacificator
of a troubled world. How different her career
from that which she is now pursuing, and is too
likely to pursue in future.
Now, she is not only a party to every war in
Europe, hut she is the author of many wars,
•whirh, hut for her, would never occur. Now,
the flagrant injustice with which shedespotiscs
on the ocean has.cnlisted almost the whole world
agahist her, and furnished the powerful pretext,
if not the actual lever by which Napoleon sub
verts empires at pleasure. Now, in short, she
is generally looked upon as inimical to the opu
lence and power of every maritime stale, many
of which will, doubtless, seize the first favoura
ble moments lor retaliation and vengeance.
On the contrary, had she pursued the plain,
honest, and enlightened policy we have pointed
out, how different her present situation, and be>
future prospects ! She would have been in the
enjoyment of a profound peace, unmenaced by
disturbance ; and, jnxteati of being the instiga
tor, have been thé: beneficent mediator of the
differences of surrounding and distant nations.
Her justice on the ocean would have strengthen
elher power on that element, by uniting al
the minor powers to her, and by totally depriv
ing the emperor of the French of his only plau
sible argument for extending his conquests.—
Viewed as tbi enlightened friend of the just opu
lence and power of other states she would by her
conduct most powerfully have inculcated the in
disputable truth, that the permanent prosperity
and true glory in one state, however ascendant in
power or rich in native resources, are only pla
ced on a durable foundation, by respecting the
lights and interests of.others.
To le continued.
d)e <3<i3ettc.
Wilmington, October 14, 1809.
Latest from England. —An arrival at New
York brings L»ndou papers to 31st of August
and Liverpool papers ro the 2 d of Sejitember.
The intelligence brought by this arrival is high
ly important. The grand expedition to the
Scheldt has completely failed of success, and was
about to return to England. The British army
in Spain was taking measures for its safety, but
apprehensions were entertained that it
serious
would not be able to effect its
ctreat. Ischia
and Procéda in the Bay of Najiles,
are evacua
ted by Sir Joh
Stuart ; and John Bull
may
emphatically be said to be drawing in his horns.
The expeditions to Spain and the Scheldt arc es
timated at twelve millions of pounds sterling.
No doubt is entertained now of a continental
jieace, f urkcjr, it is supposed, is doomed to
fall; and a conjoint effort of Prance and Russia
is said to he meditating against India,
Bona
parte was expected in Paris on the 15th of Au
gust, the anniversary of his birth day, from
whence, it is said, he would proceed immedi
ately for Sjiain, to assume the command of the
Trench forces in that country.
It was reported that the British government
had acceded to a proposition from France and
Austria, to stud an Ambassador to a Cong
ress
to be held for the purpose of negotiating a gene
ral peace—and Lord St. Helens was said to be
actually nominated for that purpose.
Hie king of Prussia has lately paid six mil
lions of frank's more of the arrears of the con
tributions claimed by France ; and Bonaparte
has levied the enormous sum of 196 , 240,000
franks oti the Austrian provinces.
1 hese are only the outline? of the most promi
nent articles of intelligence. In
our next we
shall give details, and
some interesting specula
t-ous (*f English editors.
Englis/Isi/stcm of Finance — Ehe British fund
ed debt,' which at the commencement of the A
nicrtcau war, did not exceed one hundred and
forty millions of pounds sterli
g, now amounts
to the enormous sum of six hundred and sixty-six
millions—upwards of toco thousand seven hundred
millions of dollars,
Of this immense sum it has
been
curiously calculated, that if it were laid
duwn
tn a direct line ot guineas, close to each
ndicr, it would extend upwards of twelve thou
sand miles ! ! And by changing it iuto shillings,
and averaging it in a similar manner, it would
be sufficiently long to reach eleven times round
'"Ceaiili, S!lt j woulvi require two hundred and
ten thousand h
' it, all,
orseS to
eh I
horse» tuousand
• weigh-.
if it lit t
he
managers oi these wWgh/t, treasures as,.
, that
1
" a national debt is a nation il Idessinm,
it will
follow that the British nation tire
supremely blest
indeed ; and their
government may with truth
oc called a • a mc.,t stupendous fabric of human
wisdom. ' But however obvious the truth of
these assert. ms may appear to royal expansive
minds, it will be difficult to render them euffici
eut plain to the understanding of simple Ameri
can fanners and mechanics, who still entertain
the most inveterate prejudices in favor-of republi
can simplicity and economy, and the nld-fasbion
ec!
rule of justice—notwithstanding the incessant
and disinterested labours of the servants and ad
vocates of this most pet feet of all governments to
enlighten their minds. They are in fact so in
corrigibly ignorant of the blessings that flow
from royalty, and so peiverseiy prejudiced in
iavor 0 ( their own simple form of government,
that those who are labouring to rescue them
lrom the drudgery of governing themselves
1 arc
treated with tilauklcssness and suspicion,
Whe
told of the superior wisdom of the British for
m
ol government, and the blessings of a national
debt, the mind of every Amenc'm of plain com
mon understanding is led to contrast th
e econo
my of the two nations. By turning his atten
tion to the economy of his own government, h
discovers that the national debt,
width w
principally contracted du
g our struggle
rm
lor
independence, has, in the sjmcc of endu
years.
been lessened upwards of thirty millions of dol
lars. Ily adverting to the history of rhe British
system of finance, he finds that their national
debts contracted to carry on War, foupded 011 am
bition and injustice, has, during the same peri
od, increased at the average of upwards of ninc
tv millions of dollars per annum. The next en
quiry that common sense and common honesty
would naturally make, would be—how is this
enormous debt to be paid 1 The advocates for
the system would tell us that it is never to be
paid, which makes it a public blessing : the pub
lic creditors do not cxjiect the principal—they
will be satisfied with tile punctual payment of
the interest. But how arc the exprimes of ••
ov
eminent to be supported and the interests of tlv.
national debt tobe regularly paid, which, at the
rate of five per cent amounts to the enormous
• hundred and fifty millions of dollars
sum of
annually—a sum at least one-third greater than
the wnolc amount of gold and silver com in the
nation? To pay this sum of one hundred and
fi:ty millions ot doll.us annually, the government
must have an artificial capital ot at least four
hundred millions ot dollars. This artificial
capi
tal is (rented by the emission of back notes, is.
sued on the credit of the government, and made
payable in specie on demand ; and from the eu
dent inability of the government to pay a fourth
part of the interest of .ts national debt in specie,
it follows that it has long been in a state of in
solvency, and that the moment the
suspicion oi
the people is awakened the nation will become
bankrujit. Ho
lutig this awful crisis is likely
to be averted by the economical administration
of the government time alone must determine ;
hut the following article, from the Rich
non;:
Enquiier, will shew that an
cnqun v is now on
foot whic h is likely to prove more interesting
to
the people of England than to the ministry ;
BRITISH EXPENDITURES.
Cut. tVmdle , in the British Honse of Com
mons, on the 19 th June, stated the burthens of
the country, and the grievances from
Inch he
thought it- might be relieved,
In the course of
his observations he said that the public expendi
ture in 1808, amounted to 71 millions of mo
ney, and from the survey of the estimates pre
sented for I 8 O 9 , it has encrcased to 79 million,.
He proposed to make the following alterations
by which enormous sums might be saved.
The regiments of horse guards aod blues,
which now consist of 22,000 men, he would
rt
duce to 500, as they were only intended for
parade.
There is at present 23.399 dragoons, which
he would reduce to 15,000—this would save the
country 1,270,000/. annually.
1 he foreign troops in the British service, a
mount to 22,978, the expense of this corps is
1,800,000 per annum. He would discharge
these altogether, believing it to be bad policy',
to
employ foreigners.
The royal staff corps, he deemed useless, !
as
their duty appertained to the
The
engineers.
annual expenee of this corps is 20 , 000 /.
The mil'tia of the united kingdom costs the
country annually three millions; by allowing
half the men to sjicnd a month employed at the
harvest 300,000/. might be saved.
The annual .expence of the local militia
was
1,218,000/. out of this 800,000/. was allowed
for the staff', which he deemed a profligate
ex
penditure.
The clothing of thiscoips cost 3/. per r
man,
whereas a jacket and trowsers being all that was
necessary for uniform, might he procured for
half a guinea, 700 , 000 /. might be saved this way
every year.
The volunteer force cost 1 , 000,000 per ann.
This was useless ; for the spirit of the country,
and the attendant advantages on the service, such
as exemption from ballot, &c. ought to be suf
ficient to induce men to enter into it.
The royal waggon train cost 48,993/. per an
This is useless, because it can only be
num.
employed at home.
1 he staff of the army 449,649/. per annum.
He could show that 2o6,OuO/. per annum ininiit
be saved.
The recruiting staff' cost 349,000/. per an
num, 100 , 000 /.
ight be saved.
The expenee of clothing the troops might be
reduced, sons to save annually 135,000/. *
In supplies for the troops 300,000/. pe
r annum
might be saved.
I
The r.lolhlr
!Crt ' to the Spanish levies, might
I
have been cor.
■ u ted lor at a cheaper rate, and
1 00 , 000 /. have been saved.
The military expenditure in
180G was l
314,420
! 807
275,350
'
1 808
15,21)0,539
1 809
r r , - - 17,45)0,000
I ne whole charge far collection of the reve
nue, in file pi turnt year, amounts to 2,816,5! 6 ,
one million might be saved by reducing the com
missions, &c. to 3
per cent.
The duties levied in
, Ireland, amount to
5,55 1,650/. and the charge of collecting it was
u28,(>3.>/. being at the rate of 9 /. 10 per cent. A
savingof 281 , 619 /. might he made in this.
I lie post office revenue in Scotland, is Col
lected at an expence of 12 per cent in the cross.
By abolishing the office of commissioners lor
auditing the public accounts, 75,000/, per ann.
might be saved.
I hat several millions might be saved from the
post-office, fortifications, military toads, bar
ruck, &«. Sec.
It was supposed th it 455,000,000 of the puh
l;c money was unaccnuiued for, the money
was
al
ays voted upon general estimates.
FOil THK'GAZETTE.
" Tenehrie. sole
r-o, diffughint."
For the consideration of the fere and independent
c t,.em ,t .\cw-Castle county.
Ftu.ow Citizens,
Your election now being over, I think it but
lair and just that a discussion of the mode which
has tor so longa time coiiltised and injured the
republican party of our county should be
brought before you ; and some change made as
it respects the future choice of members of the
legislature ant! levy court.
The one lately adopted for selecting of she
riff, has me» with such universal applause, a
mong the enlightened part of t.itr citizens, a<
to induce a majority of them to believe, that it
is the only mode that cau be pu'sucd in select
ing members of the legislatuie and levy-court—
to preserve union in the party. The more of
delegation, since its first introduction, has ne
vet failed to p-oduc- turmoil among our repub
lican friends ; and why should we continue to
system that has nearly, already, made
oursue
our country the scorn of opposition ? Must we
go on to continue a measure so deleterious ?
Must We continue a system that is strikii
at
the very foundation of our patty ? No, fellow
Wli interests, respectability.
rizriis. vntir
t..ni re*p-.-ct for the enlightened county of N
Cadle forbids the idea 1
1 liec.rfvoca'i", oi the delegation system, from
rxt rune the intendedcnai.ee was agitaleo
the h
ntv :r tailed to riiiiupun your ears, .mcou
I V cr.
tion
', destruction of pally and every
str
gumeiit, calculated for any but an en
her
ueii people.
To
fig
invh.ee' yourselves of
tkness and inconsistence of their argu
the
ments, loo;; the coi.stqu nees of ll
tuea
•Hut Jiiletiurea. FeiloW-ci
- < nil an
su re
tizens, answer the following questions.
Have you since the delegation system has
been in iorce, had as good a representation as
heit the party convened at some suitable time
\v
picvious to me election and loaned the ticket ?
Did there not then exist more harmony in
the party than at present ?
These are questions that rest with yourselves
to determine. For my own part 1 feel a vene
ration for Red-Lion meetings. 1 believe it is
the best way we can effect a concentration of
our force. But, what friend of republicanism
could wish to see a measuie continue, that is
inhering corruption, and lessening the strength
of tin- party in every hundred in the county :
The present elect on has given us a few in
stances, to our sorrow, of the dolefm effects of
this destructive system. We may be asked,
why are not the hundieds more attentive tod.e
selection ol proper delegates ? We can a 3 rea
day answtr that wtiere there has been attention
pa.d, delegates have went forward instiucted
by the candidate liiinselt to vote in his favour,
contrary to the intentions of a majority ot the
hundred ; and in many instances nave not at- j
tended-by which means the hundred has been
deprived ol her representation.
Are these not striking instances of the im
propriety of the mode, though they are not all
the inconveniences that attend it ? Suppose one
of the nomination declines serving—to be con
sistent, you ought to call all the dele
> lo
gether, and elect another ; or else you infringe
upon your resolutions, as in the iate case in
Nevv-Castle hundred—though the hundred se
lected. To have prevented trouble, and to
have given every hundred in the county its due
weight, how much beiter would it have been
to have selected ail in the same manner in the
first instance.
Hundred selections would cute the present
animosities existing among us. 1 'hey would
add streligtn to the party by giving us an abler
representation, l'he people wouid soon leel
their own importance. They wouiu be less
apt 10 deceive themselves, by voting in a d.iect
manner—in propria persona—than il they v<. ted
for delegates. 'Tis well known they are, m
niasse, less liable to abuse a blessing than an 111 -
diviuual. lhey would feel an emulation,
which would naturally bring foith iioin the
hundreds tue ablest and best men. It wouid
be attended with such ease and convenience to
the hundreds, that every man would be alive to
bis interest. As for being unconstitutional is
out of the question, i ne people in the county,
on the contrary, are invested with power to
lake the best methods of making the selections
lrom the same- '
The county s to send three senator, and se
ven representatives. The mode of choesi*^
they arc to adopt tin n
Ives.
And as for the
yell about federalists vrrim
they can vote us soon for dclcgut-s, a- for the
member directly. To prevent this tile meet
ing might be on a different day front that eftbe •
hundred election. There might be a day ap
pointed for the special purpose.
Citizens of Ncw-Castle county, why will
you be inactive to effect a measure so e«sential
to vqur liberties? Was there ever a time that
required more union than the present ? Ne
at all times, under a republican form of gov
union is necessary lor its safety. It
eminent,
must be acknowledged, it is not always in the
power of a state, even where the people are
the most virtuous, to check at once an evil :
But w
here it is so griev
s as lim present, it
behoves t
wy citizen to step forward, to op
pose the growing monster.
II you will examine history from the undent
to the most modern times, it will afford you
examples applicable to your own situation ; and
convince you of tbs dangers of corruption and
its sod effects upon a free people. In every
reign, from the first settlement of Greece to
the present period of rhe world, von have ex
amples of the necessity of a virtuous mid wise
legislature.
i hope the observations o" Cicero does not
apply to us. 1 will give them for your conside
ration.
" As Cicero observes, s -périor merit
was always exposed to persecution in'tho a'n ti
ent republics. Let no one have superior merit
with us, said the Ephesians when they banish
ed Hermodorus ; if a man thinks himself emi
nent, let him go to another country, (fuse 5.)
That absurd expression displays a. sentiment:
which was at that lime very common; hut ne
cessity made them reflet the loss of men 'of
ab lilies. Home very .soon became sensible
that the want of Camillus could not be suppli
ed." Head -„also the maxim of Coiisfaiuius,
the father of Constantine, given as a him tu
apostates.
it has been the wholesome advice of the sages
of every age, to have a strict regard to grati
tude. Indeed it was considered so great a
crime in Persia that it was punished with death.
This
I law i never wish to s--c in iiirce
with us—if it were, I-ani afraid New-C asrle
county Would be depopulated.
'«'here is also a provei.b, that he tin" tuns
counter to rules ol friendship s' out! never be
trusted again. The fo-cç and tpp'icr'Mii of
t-cse hist observations are oh ions ; atm i! pro- .
perlv atv.-v.ed to. cannot Iri to make tlit n-o
ptr impression. I nave alre.id; exceeded my
unfits; md will therefore leave -any fur l «
* fM>
servarious necessary to be m nie, tor a «uturst
number.
TIMOTH.EL'v
cal and Pc:
iai ii.state,
T O be offerer! for sale, ot public *•
•>e on
Wednesday, the 25th insi. et 1
m . at
the Dwelling House of the lu'r A:-v
t M-
Aliister, d -ceased, in the borough of
v r i!rs;imr
:iu*. Lev
ton, in Market, street, two doors below
th
er market house —The real es'ate. being
three story "rick House lately built ! y th
deceased, and Lot of Giotind thereto beiong
ing, situated as »forested—The personal estate
consisting of Beds, bedding, Desk drawers,
Titb'cts, and sundry articles of Household and
Kitchen Furniture.
11:/ order of tin Executor of the deceased.
Hance Naff, Auctioneer *
October 14 , 18 ( 39 .
NOTICE.
. „
XT ° 1 ICE 13 hereby given to all person»
1 ^ that 'he Subscriber intends apply nig
to the Legislature of the State of Delaware,
at their sitting in January' next, on behalf of
the Heirs and legal Representatives of Wit*
luvai Perry, deceased, and John Lanke , de«
ceased, for the condemnation of a certain
JVHU stream on the head ol Mill Creek, a
bove Ho u an( {^ m m j n Broadkiln Hundred,
c .
tissex.
James Peery.
October 14, 1809.
©Biimfogton College Hotter?.
MMHE seventh day's drawing will fake place
on Wednesday, the 6 th o! December "exi.
At no stage of the lottery has there beer, an equal
inducement to adventurers vviih the pr-scrit. The
chances for the highest priza has increased almost
one third: and on the next day there will be a
stationary piize of SI IF). The flattering pros
pects of gain, joined to tin' laudable object c' the
college, it is confidently hoped wilt induce such
saies of the remaining tickets as will enable the
trustees sjieedily to complete the drawing
the
price of tickets is now S 3 50, and wiii be in
creased on the next day's drawing,
gC/' Let it be ren*'m'r>'cd that so great s
prospect of gaining & 5090, and at 1 he same.
time promoting the prosperity of so valuable an
institution for the small sum ol g3 50 will sei
dom if ever again occut
■ 1
October 14, I 8 O 9 .
Was Found,
On the 2 d instant, a lied Moro-.cc Fot 1 '
.-•! Hook, on the read between S.. George.*
and Cantwell's bridge. The owner muf
hare it by applying to
Jacob Vancte^rifu
Sit« 42 I««
