of the W'din'mg
At a msetinc of the stockh
Saturday evening last,
ton and Brandywine Bank, on
chosen dirotors for
[he following gentlemen
were
the ensuing year :
Robert Hamilton,
John Way,
Joseph Robinson,
William Poole,
James Jeffries,
James Brian,
Daniel Lowlier.
John Torbert,
Jeremiah Woolston,
At a meeting of the direotors on Monday 16th Inst.
William Pool* was unanimously elected president
the
Extract from Lord Grenville's observation* <m
kind's speech.
•• There are in the king's speech many topics that
ought to engage, and must, on future days, engage the
On future days you must
attention of thift house,
examine, not only the efTect, but the foundation of
those calamities which are adverted to in the speech.
You must consider not only the effect and foundation
like
of these calamities, but the consequences they
ly to preduce on the state and condition of the coun
You cannot shut
and Ihe spirit of the people.
try
It it in vain you attempt
.your eyes to those question!,
tothutthemi they will force thems'lves upon your
In the same manner that subject which is
attention.
treated of in his majesty's speech. I mean the topic of
our differences with America, there, will come a day
-when you must examine what is and has been the
conduct of Ihe government of this country towards
America. There will come a day when it will be im
possible to he borne in a country, which cal s itself
free, that there should be laid before such an assem
bly at this, •> garbled, mutilated, and misrepresented
documents i not to keep back information, but to give
information directly contrary to the fact. That is a
question you will come one day to examine.'*
Canada— A system of proscription and arrest seems
to be in full operation in Lower Canada; The gov
ernor general determined to enforce his pleasure of
uniting the legislative and judiciary branches; or in
other words, in admiring the judiciary to a participa
tion in the legislative department of the government,
has denounced all thor,e who have dared to oppose
his intentions, as seditious or traitorous. Several prin
ters and editors have been arrested and impr'soned,
and the types,-presses, 8cc. placed under sea's. We
hope that all these things ïnay yet have a favorable
termination.
the
" Union of honest men ."—By a curious article pub-
lished in the Baltimore E. Post, it appears that a po-
litical union has lately taken place between the moder-
ate federalists and the consnmate tories of Sussex
county in this state : their object has in view the next
ot govtrnorof Delaware ; ami on the event
electii
of success by the tories in electing a certain old refugee
near Cape Henlopen ; the f.-deralists are to be amply
rewarded. Thil is somexing like counting chickens
before the eggs are laid !
GRATEFUL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT.
The following resolution was adopted in the House of
Representatives, U. S. on Fridav last :
Resolved, Thar the house of representatives are
deeply sensible of the loss this nation has su3tain?d in
the death of that distinguished officer Gen. WIL
LIAM WASHINGTON, late a lieu tenant colonel in
the revolutionary army .- and the rejection of the
re
solution [fj wror cra/ir,] offered on the 11th inst. ha
ving been produced wholly by considerations of a gen
eral nature, cannot derogate from that high sense the
members of this house entertain in general with their
fellow citizens, of the civil and military virtues and
services of that officer.
a
By Yesterday's Eastern Mail.
THE PRESS-GANG.
Extract of a letter from capt. Coutiioy, to
his wife in Boston, dated
Antigua, March 1, 1810.
" A few days before I left Liverpool
your brother Joseph, being out in the even
ing,bad the misfortune to be met by a press
gang and was taken into a rendezvous house
and kept ; he sent the next morning for me
to come to him ; I accordingly went, but to
no purpose. The captain of die
, , . . , gang swore
that he was an Irishman ; I contended long
with him. but it availed not for me to as^
sert he was my brother ; they wanted men
nod no matter what ihry were ; all were
dragged on board the Princess, (,he guard
ship that lay in the river). When I found
he was taken on hoard, I thought no time
was to be lost in getting him off; I imme
diately went to an attorney, took a writ,
then to court, swore to a debt of 281. he was
indebted to me, then to the water-haliff and
7>°t «be silver oar sent on board of the Prin
cess to take him, and put him in prison for
nibt ; when the captain of the Princess
saw the silver oar. he would not deliver
him up ; for said he, now he is i
in my charge
I cannot let him
go until you take him by
habeas
corpus, from the king's bench i
m
Lf.ru!
I then
on.
'"rnt to my attorney, ask
*d bis advice nl.ro
t»t i( —lie replied, the ha
Was corpus will cost you 45l. beside other
lyes.
No
, matter, said I, take mv affidavit
■urn send to London for one. That we ef
ecttu. After the habeas corpus writ came
Liverpool it was served on the captain,
1,1 me Princess, a:-u iht mao demanded-—
•he prerorttptorily replied,he was willing to
give him up as soon ns he had received an
the
answer from the admiralty office, judge
my trouble, the ship being ready for sea, l
in
begged the shippers to spare me two days
to havte his final clearance from London.
They granted my request • at the expirati
on of two days, the wind being fair, they
insisted on my sailing or putting another
captain on board, for the ship could not be
detained any longer- Finding no possibi
lity of getting him clear before my sailing.
I went to my attorney, left him 1981- to pay
he
all expences, and to get him clear a*< soon
as poa.ible—then to Mr. Breed, a gentle
man of Boston, who had the goodness to
take it in hand as l was obliged to sail ; he
has promised to interest himself in his be
in
half. At the time Mr. Pitty was impressed
they had on board between 80 and 40
American mates and seamen ; two masters
of American ships have their own broth,
ers impressed, and had no prospect of get
ting them clear. I have done all I could
fur him before I left Liverpool, and hav'e
left the business with my friends who will
get him clear if possible, it was with re
ii
gret I left him behind.
The secret of the treaty between France
and Austria is now developed—Bonaparte
is to be married to the archduchess Maria
Louisa, eldest daughter of the Emperor of
Austria, and niece to the late murdered
queen of France !
PHIL AD. aprii. 17.
PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE.
a
We have been obligingly favored with the following
extractor a letter from Paris, dated March Gib, re
ceived via, London, by the Juno, in 28da\sfronr
Portsmouth, (England) to Boston.
" The changes taking place on the continent, arc
so rapid, you can hardly follow them. Bonaparte
marries the daughter of the emperor of Austria. He
Is stretching his arms across the Northern frontiers,
and wi l seal xp the channel's of commerce. Russia
must submit to the dictates of the great emperor, or
the French Eag'es will be planted on the walls of St.
Petersburg!! ; and thus will Alexander be punished
for his desertion of Austria. As to Americans, their
case is h opcless. When will our government realize
the views of France! She promises every thing, and
condemns every thing. Alreadr have the American
vessels seized at St. Sebastians, arrived at Bayonne ;
and their cargoes deposited ii; the government '
res*
The sale will Soon bo made for the benefit of the im
perial treasury:"
Extract of a letter received by a cotnmerci
al house of this city,from their agent in
France, dated
ed
u Bordeaux, Feb. 4.
As I was about closing this
<c
etter
D.-, who came from Bordeaux, and
was carried into St. Jean de Luz, ha, re
ceived and shewn me the following letter
front General Armstrong, dated Paris, Ja
nuary 30.
" I bave received your letter of the 24th
of
inst. and exceedingly regret ihe embarrass
ments with which you have met ; the expla
nations I have received with regard to the
seizure made of all our ships, &c. in the
ports of Spain are not of a character to tran
quilize you. They are said to he the result
of a principle adopted bv his Majesty, that
c
a commerce denied to France shall hot be
permitted to her allies. The presumption
ts that your ca:.u will be sent before the
Council of Prizes ; you should therefore
make your protest before competent autho
rity and forward it with power to employ
attorney if necessary, to Mr. D. R. Mars
den, our agent here, signed J. Armstrong.
You may form as good conjectures as I can
at prêtent from the contents of this letter."
:0:
Pourtsmoutii[Eng.] Feb.10. On Thurs
day arrived here the famous French frigats
Cannonicr, of 44 guns, prize to the Valli
ent, Capt. Bligh. The accounts differ ve
ry much as to the value of her cargo—she
having been stated to have been laden with
the spoils of her depredations in the Indi
an seas, Capt. Bligh, in his official letter,
says, " she is laden with a cargo of coloni
al produce." Another accoum states her
cargo consists of sugar, Mocha and other
coffee, cotton, indigo,cloves, nutmegs, ebo
oy, tea. pepper, gum Arabic, tortoise shell,
cinnamon, nankins, galls, bark, silk, ivory,
__,i f n ,r, a ® j„ ' i r i
ginger, and India goods, to value of Io,000
pounds sterling. A later paper says, she
is said to have besides produce, thirty two
ton* of silver, in specie and bullion, and has
been ordrred into the river to unload."
THREE MORE AUI'UMNAL LEAVES,
Dropped from the revolutionary tree.
DIED.
On the 31st March, in the 69th
year of Ins age, Col. George Morgan, of
Morgans».
Few men of the present day, so richly mer
it the tribute of obituary respect, as he, who
is the subject of the above melancholy record.
At the early 02e of 21, Mr. Morgan, then
the youngest of one of the first mercantile
houses, in the colonies, tore himself from the
a-ms of rn accomplished and lovely wife, to
burrii
e.l, and
whom lie h <1 ju-i .
with the sp lit of o !,.! tniei p
»raversei
the gloomy wilds that then seperaiet! Philadel
phia from the Ohio, lie a:rived in Pittsburgh
in the year I 7fi5, when it was scarcely more
than an Indian village ; his views were coni'
Hierein!, in the prosecution ol which lie de
scended the river, explored the Illinois, and
so
returned to Philadelphia by the vvjy of New
Orleans. The consequence of this journey
was the establishment of an extensive trade
with the western parts of America and the
Spanish côlonies; in the pursuit of these plans,
he made frequent visits to Louisiana and the
Floridas, and became intima'ely v'rsed in the
habits and manners of the numerous tribes ol
aborigines who then thickly hovered on the
north western frontier. From the sound judg
ment and benevolent policy Vhicit he displayed
in those relations, he acquired that popularity
anil knowledge, which so eminently qualified
him for the many important offices he filled,
in lue west, during the storm of the revolution.
In the year — he founded New-Madnd, at
the request of the Spanish government, and
wish the permission of his own.
lie was the first lieutenant in the first Volun
teer company, that was raised in Pennsylvania,
commanded by general Cadwallader ; he was
shoitly after promoted to tiie command.
In April '76 he was sent by congress to Pitts
burgh, with the important appointment of
" agent for Indian affairs for the middle de
partment.''
of
In '77 he received the commission of colonel
in the army of tlie United States, and was of
fered an important command to the north,
which he wished to accept ; but he was indu
ced to relinquish it at the request of congress
that he would bestow his exertions on the ar
duous task of preserving tranquility on the
Indian frontiers ; they viewed him as pre-emi
re
nently qualified for the serious trust, and in the
latter end of'7* he accepted the commis -ion
of " deputy commissary general for the wes
arc
tern district in the armies of the United .Slates."
In this station the journals of the house of con
He
gress hear the fullest testimonials of his ability
and integrity. The different treaties he con
cluded with* the various tribes evince a heart
replete with patriotism and benevolence.
or
In *8o lie was elected a member of ihe " A
St.
nv.-rican Philosophical Society.
nv.-rican Philosophical Society.
Though he bore his part in the military
scenes of our country with a genius surpassed
by few, yet his mind was more in unison with
the peaceful pursuits of life. As a farmer he
has shone conspicuous; his whole son! at one
period devoted to i uprovements in cultivation,
fie was one of the original founders of the
Pennsylvania Agricultural Society, and had the
satisfaction of receiving the first gold medal
ever awarded in America as the toward of
agricultural.ill voiiUod ; in the prosectitÏMi of
ftis schemes, he was restricted by no contract-
ed notions of expense or trouble, lie look, cl
forward not to the immed-ate increase of ins
own fournie, but to an honest fame and the im-
provement of his country. He was an honor-
ary member of all the " Agricultural Socie-
ties of his day. At an a lvunced age lie rtmo
veil to the western country, anti closed the
evening of his useful life in the bosom of an
affectionate family, leaving the amiable partner
of 46 yea's, to mourn his loss.
-At his house in Cranberry, (N. J.) on
the first of the present month, (April) after a
long and lingering illness, captain Gtoiiuu
M'Aroy, aged 78 years. He was a native of
Ireland, ami look up his residence in this coun-
At the dawn -if our
try neatly (io years ago.
revolution he became extremely active in the
c .use of his adopted country, ami commanded
one of the fust privateeis ro.v.inissoned by the
conVneiital c ongress in which he was veiy suc-
cessful and captured seveial of the enemy's
most important Jamaica ships, returning from
that island with cargoes of immense value—
throughout the war which terminated in the
establishment of freedom, and gave us rank
among the nations of the earth he was a zea-
lous whig, always prefering the interest of the
country to his own; since the peace of 1783,
lie has heert settled near Cranberry in the state
of N. Jersey, and employed on his farm until
his infirmities made it necessary, about two
for him to rent it out and retire from
years ago
such busy scenes to the town of that name.—
From the adoption of the general government
of the Uni led States, he was always a nnijorm
federalist , n trite disci hi- of the Washington
school, and throughout his walks of life, an
honest man, a kind neighbour, a sincere friend,
He has
good husband, fattier and Christian,
left a widow and three children to bemoan his
loss,andalargecirclcolrelationsandacquain
tances. This small tnbut'e of respect is due
&»"» an nl(1 fr j entl who 1,ris kn(nv ' n , liim in,imat *'
'y «P wa . rt,s of 35
ed ln» virtues and othel 1 amiable qualities.
- Jn Augusta, Georgia, on the 9th tilt in
fhe Mlh yeal . B 0 j- his age . gen. Thomas Glas
COCK The remains of this revolutionary pa
tl .| ot W ere interred with all the honors of war;
while his memory remains forever embalmed
in the tears of a grateful people.
- ■a iw oWWWW»» »— -
Pitrsburg, April G.
The legislature of this state adjourned
of
Tuesday the 20 uit. after a session of
on
three months and three weeks, in which
time they passed 137 laws, 6 resolutions,
and un address to the governor for the re
moval of Benjamin Elliott from the office
of associate judge, in Huntingdon county.
A new Arbitration Law has been passed
the
I h« *
at the last session of the legislature.
to
Insoi
nt L.r'.v, tvlilili li'i*. been in forrss
suffered io
for some ti ne past, has been
liroitation, ;md no xubsti
expire by its ua ii
The old System is of
tute enacted.
course received, und under it insolvent
debtors must be in actual confinement at
the lime of their application, and continue
till their final discharge by the court.
so
Advertisement .
THE SUBSCRIBER OFFERS FOR SALE
A SMALL FARM,
C ONTAINING about forty-eight acres of
land lying in East Nottingham, C'ccctl coun
ty, Maryland-, on two public toads, leading from
the Brick Meeting House to New London Cross
Roads, und from Lancaster to Elkton, one mile
and three quarters from the Brick Meeting
House, six-miles from the Cross-Roads, about
thirty miles from Lancaster, and eleven miles
from Elkton, on the main waggon road from
Little Britain Township to Christiana Bridge,
the-situation is healthy, pleasant, and hand ome,
and as good a stand for a tavern and store, as
there is in the neighbourhood-.
There is erected on the premises a large two
story Log House, with a store house and kitchen
adjoining, all has been rough cast, good »tables,
a well of very good water, about two hundred
Peach Trees, just begun to bear, some other fruit
trees of different kinds; about fifteen actes of it
in woodland and some of the ground laying
handsome for meadow. As it is presumed that
no per»on will incline to purchase wi'hout see
ing the property-, a further desciiption is deemed
unnecessary. An indisputable title will be made,
and possession given to suit the purchaser, and
the terms made known by applying to
JOHN CHANDLEE.
fit
April 18, 1310.
Bank of Wilmington &? B randy vo ins.
URSU ANT to a resolution of the board of
p
directors, of the Bank of Wilmington and
Brandywine^ the subscribers give notice that they
wilt attend at the house of Edward Thomas, on
Wednesday the 2d daycf May next, for the pur
pose of receiving the scco.-.d instalment of 5 dol*
Jars per lharc on the capital stock of the com*
pany.
Aim, that after the 23 J in«t. transfers of stock
may be made, personally or by attorney, on the
transfer books of the company, at the store of
John Tolbert.
J. WOOLSTON,
7 Com-
£ mittee.
JOHN TORBERT,
April 13, 1810.
I2M
White-Hall Farm,
St. Georges Hundred, New Castle County,
and state of Delaware.
utters private sale, the
TBTIIF, subscribe:
itit the valuable marsh there
•.move
a,
to belonging, situate upon the St. Augustine and
Silver Run creeks, making in the whole 450
acres.
F or I'ei t'kty of soil, beauty of situation, elegance
of unprovemcr t, and healthiness, this farm stands
unrivalled in this state, it lies 8 miles from the
waters of the Chesapeake, 3 from the river Dela
ware, 4 from Cantwell's Bridge, 18 miles from.
Wilmington, (and near me state road leading to
it,) and in the cicinity of the village known by
the name of the Trap. It his been cultivated
lor eighteen years past upon the clover and plais
tcr plan, and for that period Go or 70 acres of
tlovér have been mowed annually.
Those who are inclined to purchase may, by
applying on the farm, view the premises, and'
know the ternis either by applying to himself oc
his con William C, Frazer, residing at Nett
Castle.
WILLIAM FRAZER.
White Hall Farm, April U, 1810.
tf
if the farrrt is not soldat private sale, it Will be
sob! on the premises an Friday the first day of
June. It Will command annually to a certainty
Iront 1000 to 1200 dollars. W. 1*.
Wilmington College.
fS IHE Trnllces of the W ilmington College,.
_E take pleafure in announcing to a liberaF
public, that the Latin department of this infti
tution is permanently ellablifhed under the
immediate care of Mr. Joleph Downing, who'
will alfo reach the higher branches of Mattie-'*
maticks. The healthy situation of Wilming-*
ton, its character for morality, the goodneftf
of markets, and cheapnefs of hoarding ; toffi
bined with the well ellablifhed reputation of
Mr. Downing as a faeceLful teacher, all
concur
to recommend this femmary to the attention of
parents and guardians, to whofc care the edu
cation and improvement of youth may be en
tniffid—the trullecs inform the public with
e<] al confidence ihat lire Englifh fcltool is in a
fl.jiivifliingftate under the luperintendance o r
Mr. E. K. Dare—and ihe young ladies deyavt
ment is again permanently revived under
T.
pare of the Rev. Mr, HerJerTon whofc respec
tability and acknowledged merit are
a lure
pledge of his difpofitioo and ability ro hnoro- e
the young ladies Committed to
i x c
ROUT. 11 A
TON,
n
EBEN A. SMITH,
JOHN KDMSAY.
( =
M IL LI AM PRYCE 3 g
April 4 1 Si 0.
tf
ro bt'. ll r,
r'PTH F. Farm and M ush, late in the tenure c '
.It John File, coniaining a Farm House arid as
bout sixty acres of Land, in and adjoining the
Borough, unci ninety actes of Marsh in Cherry
l«!and. If not let soon altogether, it will bed'.
* vitled and let separately.
JOSHUA Si THON C1LÇU
