THE DELAWARE GAZETTE.
VOL. IQ
WJLMINGTOK SA' TURD A
MAY lg, 1310.
ÇNO. 88
\
-LiL.mi 7* mmk-Mt
HEW CASTLE Cs' FRENCH-TOWN
TURNPIKE ROAD.
HE commissioners, appointed under and by
T
of the act of the legislature of the
p virtue
state of Delaware, entitled, " an act toincorpo
u ,atc a company for making an artificial road
" from the town ol NewCastL- in New-Castle
« county, to the line of this state, in the route
direction of Frencb-Town on F.lk river, in
or
«< Catcll county, in the state of Maryland," ami
of an act of the legislature of the state of Mary
land, entitled " an act to incorporate a company
for making an artificial toad from French Town
on Elk river, in Cœcil county in the state of
" Maryland, to .the Delaware line, in a direction
towards the town of New-Castle"—hereby
jjpvc notice, that books for icceiving subscriptions
will be opened on Monday, the 23d day of April
iiext, at Binuell'i Hotel, in the town of New
Castle, at the compting houses respectively of
Mr. George Hand, jun. merchant of Philadel
phia, and Mr. William M'Donald, merchant, of
Baltimore, and at the office of John Partridge ,
esq. at Elkton ; and kept open, at least
six
hours" bet w*en ten o'clock in the afternoon of
that day, and every juridical day for the space
five days thereafter, or uctil the said boohs shall
six hundred" shares therein subscribed;
have
and if on the expiration of the raid " six days,"
the books aforesaid shall not have the number
of shares aforesaid subscribed therein, the said
commissioners will adjourn from time to time,
until the whale number of shares Shall be sub
scribed, giving public notice of such adjourn,
ment, as the occasion may require.
GEORGE READ,
JAMES RIDDLE,
KENSEY JOHNS,
JAS. M'CALL MONT,
JESSE IllGGtNS.
The acts of assembly provide, that every per
son offering to subscribe in the said hooks, in his
own name or any other name, shall previously
pay to the attending commissioners the sum of
s' ten dollars" for every share to be subscribed—
the residue to be paid in such manner and pro
portion«, and at such times, as »hall be determin
ed by the president and managers of the said
company when organized.' Those who would
subscribe by an agent must use the following
form, to be signed, sealed and delivered, in the
presence of two witnesses.
1 do hereby authorize and empower
to subscribe for me, in my name, (or
shares
of the New-Castle and French-Town turnpike
slock, under the act of the general assembly ot
the state of Del iware entitled, " an act to ineor
f' porate a company for making an artificial road
" from the town of New-Castle, in New-Castle
county, to the line of this slate in the route or
d
direction to French-Town, on F.lk liver, in
■I
" Coecil county, in the stale of Maryland."—
And the act oT the legislatuie of the Hate of
Maryland entitled, ''an act, to incorporate a
''company to make an artificial road, from
" French.Town, on Elk river, in Cœcil county,
" in the state nf Maryland, to the Delaware line, •
" in a direction towards the town of N. Ca«t!c."
New-Castle, March 1", 1810. (79) t!3M
V. S. An occurrence having taken pjuee,
which renders it necessary to postpone opening
the books until some time after the 23d of April
Inst, originally fixed for that purpose. The com
missioners therefore inform the public, that the
hooks mentioned in the preceding advertisement
to be opened on that day, will not be opened
until the 15th day of May next, after when they
will be opened for receiving subscriptions, at the
places specified in the preceding advertisement,
and additionally at Glasgow, in Pcnrader bun
dled, in New Castle county, at the dwelling of
Dr. S. BlacX, there—and at Wilmington in the
said county, at the dwelling of John Stock ton,
Esq. and continue open thereafter for ihe space
•f time specified in the said advertisement.
N. B. The shares of stock are S50 each, and
the payment to be made on subscribing is $10 op.
each shsrc.
GF.ORGF. READ,
KENSF-Y JOHN'S, .
JAMES RIDDLE,
JAS. M'CALLMONT,
JESSE HIGGINS.
NewCastle, April It, 1810.
FOR ü>Ai,r ,
At the Book store of M. 11. Lockerman, Wil
mington, Del.
A SUMMARY VIEW,
OF VHE
EVIDENCE AND PRACTICAL IMPOR
TANCE
or THE
CHRISTIAN REVELATION :
In a series of discourses addressed to young per
sons,
BY THOMAS BELSIIAM
Minister of the Unitarian Chapel, in Essex street.
This volume is divided into six discourses, viz.
• 1st. Preliminary observations. The question sta
•rd. Philosophical arguments for the Christian
rev
in.
- h Direct liisloiical evidence of the chritians
revelation.
31. Prophetic and interna! evidence of the
«hristian revelation.
4. Evidences of the Christian revelation from
the testimony of the Jewish scriptures.
. 3 The practical vrdbe oClh: Christian révéla
tion.
Wilmington College.
f l^HE Truftees of the Wilmington College,
-1 rake pleafure in announcing to a liberal
public, that the Latin department of this inlH
tution is permanently ctfabljfhed under the
immediate care of Mr.Jofeph Downing, tv ho
will alfo teach the higher brunches of Mathe*
maticks. 'J'he healthy situation of Wilming
ton, its character for morality, the goodnefs
of markets, and cheapnefs of boarding ; com
bined with the well eftablifhed reputation of
Mr. Downing as a (iiccef ful teacher, a!)
ronenr
to recommend this fenvnary to the attention of
parents and guardians, to wliofe care rhe edu
cation and improvement of youth may be en
trusted—the truftees inform the public with -
equal confidence that the Englifh fchool is in a
ftourifhingflate under the fuperintehdance of
Mr. E. K. Dare—and the young Ihdies dejart
men< is again permanently revived under the
pare of the Rev. Mr, Henderlon wliofe refpec
tability and acknowledged merit are a litre
pledge of his difpofttion and ability to improve
the young ladies committed to hiscare.
HOBT. HAMILTON
[S
EBEN. A. SMITH,
JOHN RUMS AY.
WILLIAM PRYCF,
' n
April 4 1310.
If
Dissolution of Paptnership.
HE paitncrship of lkartttn N Rice is this
T
dissolved by mutual consent. All persons
having demands against said firm are requested
to present them ; and those indebted are desired
le make payment to either of the subscribers.
Thomas Brathin,
Washington Rice.
Wilmington, Feb. 20, 1810. (it) tf
WASHINGTON RICE,
KSPECTFULLY informs the oi l
cus
tomers of Bradun & Rice, and the public
generally, that he has purchased the stock nf the
said firm, and will continue the Grocery busi
ness, at the same stoics, where Ins friends and
customers may be supplied with articles in his
line, Wholesale and Retail, on reasonable terras.
February 21.
tf
Patent Washing Machines.
fTTMlE subscriber respectfully informs hi*
J friends and the public in general, dm he
has, some time ago, purchased an exclusive right
of making and vending Patent Washing Machines
throughout the hundreds of Brandywine and
Christiana, in New-Castle county, a number o
which machines he has already made, which
have been tried by divers persons and highly ap
proved of, as they save a great part of the labour
of washing in the usual way, and are less injuri
ous to clothes. He will continue to make and
have a supply of them on hand, which he will
sell on reasonable terms to such as favour him
with their custom ; and will also sell to any per
son a right to make and use them within the
the hundreds aforesaid.
ABRAM GEST.
Wilmington, Jan. 21, f809.
tf
John Dixon
AVING succeeded Warners Ej? Tor •
H
hart in the grocery business, at the
stores lately occupied by them on Market
street wharf ; offers for sale on the most
moderate terms, for cash or the usual credit,
A General Assortment oj Groceries.
And hopes by a strict attention to busi
ness, to merit a share of the public patron
age.
The Packet, Sloop Hope, Capt.
Milner, with good accommodations for
passengers, will ply between this Town ît
Philadelphia as usual—all freight sent by
said packet will be carefully attended to.
Wilmington, July 8 , 1809 .
WANTED,
A S an apprentice to the Black Smithing
bnsiness, a lad about 15 or 16 years of
age. For particulars enquire of
JAMES WALKER.
il
Wilmington, April 11, 18J0.
Insurance against Fire.
6
T
HE fubferiher gives notice that the IYrec
tors of the Farmers' Bank of the State of De
laware at New-Castle, being now ready to re
ceive applications and effcA infurance againft
lofs or damage by fire, have appointed the fub
feriber tbe'r general Agent and Surveyor.—
Cornmun'catious on the fubjert of Infirance-,
poll pa'd, fhall be promptly and cheerfully at
tended to, by
SAMUEL BARR,
feet, t and Surveyor.
tf
New-Castle, April 6, 8io.
jtyp" Notice of Deputy Surveyor* {hall be
M iven as loon ss arrangements arc made for
purpafe-,
-LiL.mi 7* mmk-Mt
^töccüaiip.
A Moar SINGULAR LAW CASE.
HALIFAX COUNTY . VA.
March T'-.rm, 1810,
Merry
T This was an action of debt ;
J- the writ, returnable to March
vs.
Pearce, j Court, was set ved some time in
February, and the deft, committed to jail
for want of bail. And tins day W. B. B.
atty. fur the Commonwealth s'ated to the
court that, it was represented to him that
the party undec arrest in this suit was a
woman, and suggested the expediency of
bringing up the supposed defendant for the
purpose of examining into the truth of this
allegation. Whereupon the sheriff was or
dered to bring in the party—On appearing
before the court the jailer was called in, who
deposed that he hatl put the défendent
Hamiin Pearce into the jail, that, the defen
dant had continued there until the.preceed
ing night, and that he did not know when
he had coire out if at all—that on the pre
ceding night his Mother and two Sisters
had come to see him, that they had been
admitted into the jail, and after staying]
thcKt some timehad returned as it appeared
to him as they went. The sheriff was then
asked whether the person before the court
was the deffndant—he replied he did not
know, and wished it to be ascertained, and
thereupon moved the court that J. S. cap
tain of dragoons be appointed by the court
to examine tuo the sex of the party and to
The Court
report the same to the court,
however preferred making the examinati
on themsclvefe, but at the earnest solicitati
on of the pally, the mother of the deft, was
brought in a 1 ! a witness,, and being sworn
answered as/follows to the interrogatories
of J. C. ihupresiding Justice :
Q. Du you kuow the person at the bat ?
A. Yes./
Q. Who is it ?
A. Jenney Pearce.
Q, is it Hamlin Pearce or Jenny Pearce?
A It is Jenney Pearce.
Q. Is it a man or a woman ?
A. It a woman.
Q.. Db yotj knuw it to be a woman ?
A. Yes, I do.
Per Cu. Let the party he discharged.
N. B. The pr isoner during the whole ex
amination conducted herself with the ut
most propriety, self-possession and compo
sure.
What an honorable instance of courage
and affection in a female: to encounter the
horrors of confinement in a common jail lor
the purpose of liberating a favorite and be
loved brother.
VERY REMARKABLE.
Account ofa dead body found under the porch
of Christ Church , in Boston, Massachu
setts, in a high state of preservation.
A circumstance occurred a short time
since, while the workmen were repaying
Christ Church in this town, ami erecting
tome new tombs under it. that deserves to
be recorded in the Anthology. '1 he ground'
under the porch at the entrance of the
Church was directed to he dug up, this
spot Having been given for the erection of
two tombs. At the distance of six feet
from Ihe surface, a grave was discovered,
in which was found a coffin of hard pitch
pine, jommonly called the Norway pine, ve
ry little decayed, which, on being opened,
contained anoth-j of the same wood, very
handsomely made, and not at all injured ;
the lid of this being lifted showed a body
wrapped in a tarred sheet, that, on being
remitted from the fate, presented the couu.
tenanee of à man that appeared quite re
cently to have died ; his flesh was fresh and
florid, as though just shaved ;-the flesh hard
to the touch, and every appearance of a new
corpse,from a short and not painful illness ;
two or three sprigs of myrtle or box, gre
tii
just cut from'the stock, were also lying
as
the outside of the tarred sheets.
on
Both coffins had on their lids, in brass
nails, the letters I. T. and a grave stone, at
the hbadof the grave, declared the person
interred there to be Mr. John- Thomas, of
the Island of Barba'does, aged 45 years,
who died 25th Juncj A. Dv 1726,
more
The number
than eighty two years ago
of persons who came to see this curious
fact, from the fineness of the preservation,
and the manner of it, induced the wardens
to direct the coffin to be closed. again and
buried, which it is, at the N. E. corner of
The soil under the porch was
ihe church,
a yellow clav, mixed with small stones and
gravel. Whether the body had been
some
partially embalmed previous to interment
is not known ; but the verdure of the sprigs
of myrtle induces oneto think it may b<r
owing wholly to-the exclusion of external,
air ; yet hii being of Barb.-idties, and such
care taken of the corpse, with a view per.
hapi to removal, would Occasion one to
imagine the intfcs'fnes had hern taken out,
and herbs substituted. The fact is, howe
ver, as stated, and the Curious tnay draw
their own conclusions.
COLUMBIA.
Washington, Ary,,G
ARLINGTON STEEP SHEARING.
The Sixth aniversarv of thè 1 .1
ngt'oo
Sheep Shearing was celebrated'oti I -'t ; day
last the SOth lift. The badness of the
; ay
prevented so large a company from «ut
ing, as had been expected. Apparently, a
bout 150' persons were present.
1 he shewcommticed at half past twelve,
and the cups vVere adjudged to Daniel M.
Chichester,and John C. Scott, Esqs. for ihc
best Tup and best pair of Ewe Lambs of
one year old. During the show a Fair was
held, for the sale of Domestic Fabrics, and
many were sold, at good prices. A bill of
Woolen Yarn exqyisiiivcly spun,and weigh
ing a pound, was sold for the enormous
price of Four dollars.
At five o'clock the company adjourned
to dine under the Tent of Washington.
This venerable convass, commemorative of
the revolution, and its immortal hero, was
extended by using its various parts (many
of which by their tattered appearance dee
noted' their long & arduous servierte con
tain a table of about an hundred feet inf
length. The Portrait of the departed Chief,'
graced the upper end, and the whole was
hung with the well earned Laurel of Fame.
Air. CUSTIS presided, and was sup*
ported hy the hon. Mr. CampheIvE, mem
ber «('Congress from the state of Mary land,
as Vice-President, and by Rich'«. M.
Scott, Erq. from the board of Judges of
Stock and Fleeces, and Jonathan Swift,
esq. from the board of Manufactures,
as-
as»istTnt Vice-Friv idents—it die right hand'
of the president, Was placed Mr, Cliacpri.
consul from the Spams'- ;
'«riots ; being
considered as the représenta 1 . ■ of a nati
on, now struggling for freedom a d worthy
to-be honored in a tent sacred to that glori
ous cause. After dinner, the cup's were
presented to the successful candidates by
thè President, \V'uh a short and impressive
address to each—when the follow ing toasts
were drank in American wine :
By Mr. Custis. —Agriculture the basis
of our strength—Commerce the patron of
our labour, and Manufactures the resouiee
for our wants—may these important inter
ests ever be united, with g nerous sympa
thy in suppbrt of the wealth, industry, and
independence of the republic.
Previous to the second toast, Mr. Cus
tus arose and called upon every man who
esteemed the character of the illustrious
dead, to lay his hand upon his heart while
he drank
To the sainted memory of the first of men.
■ The call Was obeyed ! by general im
pulse, the whole company rose up, and each
man placing his baud upon his breast pro
nounced with reverence—
To the memory of Washington, the Ro
man Father of our land, whose virtues
could alike adorn the chaiir of state, and
grace the humble walks of rural life. May
die remembrance of our ^-parted benefac
tor, his maxims, his prcivpts and esramples
arise like a kindred spirit, to guide the
destinies of that nation whose happiness he
liveth to accomplish, and : whose fame he
hath rendered immortal.
3d. Bv Mr. Campbell —The'state of Vir
ginia, the strongest link in the Federal
'chain. .
4th. Bv Mr. Scott —The President of the
United States.
wifi —Mr. Gustus and the ArL
5th. By Mr
ington Institution.
Which was drank with three cheers—
Mr Custus here arose, amt after thanking the
company, proceeded in u speech of an hour, to
take an enlarged view of the foreign relations and
domestic resources of our country, declared his
perfect friendship towards commerce 3,1 an use
ecessary and honorable source of wealth
fnl,
d ptosperity, spoke of the hardships suffeied
an
in the usurpation« of nur legitimate right to the
ocean, and gave to the suffering tar, the full
measure of a patriot's concern and indignation ;
proceeding in a fervent strain on the history of
•lie revolution and its attributes, and not forget
ing the just eulogium to the departed hero and
benefactor of our country. Mr. Custtis rot.,
eluded with adverting to the glorious struggle of
Spanish virtue against tyranny and oppression,
! and called for the sympathy cf American Ftee
