The present house of delegates of Massachusevs
• if
consists only of eix hundred and thirty one members.
This out councils the council of 500 all hollow !
itoooot
and
Legislature of Delaware.
of
NUMBER 9 .
that
[To the following nnmber of Brutus we take the
the
freedom to invite the most sedu'otis attention of our
readers in Delaware, and more particularly those of
New-Casile county. More flagrant instances of ocal
the
f local favoritism—of Federal intrigue—
partialities
the
of political and financial dup icity — were never prac
t ced in any government, than is developed by this
communication What is asserted does nor grow out
ami
of the effects of party zeal; they are full and absolute
facts—incontrovertib'e—-incontestible. Are the citi
zens of New castle county thus to be robbed, to be
oppressed, to be cajoled; is their patriotism and pub
lic spirit thus to be trampled upon by a dishonest and
.dishonorable faction ; are they thus to be saddled with
taxes and oppression, to defray the rxpences of their
political enemies cf the same state ? Common hones
ty and common justice ought to forbid it ! The en
of
■►suing election may effect a rad cal cure of these gr'ev
anccs—and we eagerly look up to our republican fcl
it
low citizens of Kent and Sussex, for a hearty co-ope
ration with us to obtain a change of men. and with
them a rhange of measures. YVe know this state has
republican nerve and tint tt* ; it requires nothing
but to bring all its enrr{iei, into action—let the repub
licans but rise in the full majesty of their strength,
and Delaware will no longer remain the solitary as
sociate of Connecticut ]
THE statements in my last cxlnb't a conclu
sive answer to the question I have asked, Why
the auditoi's report limited to the year 1 r<)0 ?
was
It was evident there was no balance outstanding
against Newcastle county, prior to the year 17!)8
!
—hut a more substantial reason in the c.timati
ofa corrupt legislature was, that there weie
on
then standing taxes absolutely due to the
state
and unpaid hy the counties of Sussex and Kent,
anteiiar to lue year 17 p 0 —after every possible
a
deduction that human ingenuity could invent—
after years hid been waäted over the mouldering
records, and not only every doubtful i'etn but
every one that a partial imagination could make
appeal- so, was deliberately placed to their credit
—after the subject had hern shorn and pruned
to the very quick, a balance front Kent of
gjlôt) (is, and from the county of Sussex of
g(i70(i 30V, mak'-ng together the round sum of
£ 1 I,Stf5 081, a sum equal to the ordinary
an
ntui s'atc tux,eleven-twentieths of which has beca
standing foi more than twenty -seven years ; and
would have encreuse 1 the finances of the state at
the present period, at the customary interest
compounded, to a sum far cx< ceding thirty'lhou
sand dollars. But instead of this the lourity of
Newcastle has not only sustained her aetual pro
portion of this lo-—hut has been assessed her
annual proportion of the tax to make good the
deficiencies of Kent ami Sussex.
I a n aware that many arguments (or raihei
substitutes far arguments) have been rescued to
in order to divert the public mind from the pro
■f the deficicn
priety of enforcing the payment
cics from Kent and Sussex of the years 17.81—8 3.
with
But 1 have not heard any that would no'
as strut justice, apply to die county of New
Every difficulty that existed in Kent ai.d
c astle.
Sussex in those rears, existed in ihc same degiee
in Newt asile county; and yet she paid up her full
She, in fact, from her at
ptnpDition of taxes,
tachtncnt to the laws, supported by her own her
culean efforts, or. her-own shnuldeis, for those
year', almost exclusively, the whole weight of
the government of the state-—the two lowet coun
ties paying hut a small part of the propoition
lor which they were assessed.
But adiniil ir,g for a moment what has never
been proven, tlivt the deficiencies of 1731 acd
1783 were doubtful, upon what principle, let
me
ask, was the balance ag iust Kent of £187 80
Grille year 1 789, and the balance against Su..
scxofS722 45 nf the same year (exactly the
year preceding the commeucen.ent of the ntetn
y,]e report of the auditoi) temitted ? Why
or a:
t the surplus paid since the year 17S>0,
was no
and which li -s been d.ducted from this year's
,f the tax of Kent and.SussfX, by an odi
quota
ous and iniquitous law applied (.-s ha# been
cus
tumary) to discharge the deficiencies of 173J >
This is a question that demands the serious at
tention of every taxable inhabitant of this state,
and is of a charat tertoo serious to he trifled with.
Jt is demanded of Newcastle county on the pait
of her interest—it is de ma rilled of Kent and Sus
sex on the part of Justice—it is not a question of
puty. I consider myself a taxable of Newcas
tle county, and as sue It being aggrieved, I ap
P'ii from the unju-t decision ofa majority of the
legislature to the impartial and deliberate judg
^ nient of alt political descriptions of tny fellow ci
tizens. Is it possible, or am I huiried by the
images ofa mistaken fancy, that a set of men of
rasper table character, of almost irreproachable
private life, ( loathed with the confidence of the
'•coule, and acting ttad.-r the solemn obligations
• if their oaths should, in tlieir legislative capacity
exhibit to their constituent« so total a iJ: relict ion
front the paths of honour, of impartial justice
and of fidelity, as to be capable of deliberately
sanctioning a la* absolutely refunding to the
counties of Kent and Sussex one thousand dollars
of the present yeai's tax, at the vtty moment
that they were incontrovevtibly acquainted w'th
the fact that there was twelve times that sum due
anil
from those counties to the state ; and of laying
the additional burthen of 1000 thills- to make up
the deficiencies of Newcastle county, at tile same
ing
moment that they were tem-tting those of Kent
ami Süsser. It is but too evident that it has
to
long been the intention of Kent and Sussex to a
.void if possible the payment of tlieir balances.
The repeated reports of the auditor uniformly
reducing the amount of the balance due, and the
remarkable cticurnstance that from tlie moment
"
of the final report of the auditor, in I 803, When
it was found impossible by every stratagem to
reduce the balance to a Its« sum than 11000 dois,
that from that moment this balance (w hich had
been for sortie years rcpoi fed) ceased to forma
part of the report of the auditor—and fioin the
same period Was introduced the resolution requir
in'; the auditor to repoil the outstanding balances
from the year 1 "1)0, with the evident design of
throwing these balances out of sight, ami rob
ing the county of Newcastle altogether of her
just interest therein. And I assert confidently (as
! challenge contradiction) that it is dishonorably
intended to accomplish, by this disgraceful law,
what lias long been anxiously designed—to
expunge from tbe records th s balance, and t»
prove by a future reference to these proceeding«
a final settlement of accounts to the passing of
tills law. Wut will the county of Newcastle suf
fer to pass into oblivion so gla -g an imposition
— will she permit to pass unheeded by, not only
so gross a partiality to Kent and Sussex, but an
absolute robbery of Iter own iutcicst in the state
funds ? It is not so muih the value of the in
jury as the principle, .admit the principle, and
where wdl imposition terminate. Already they
have taken from the Levy Court (which had hi
therto been some check) the power over and con
troul of assessing this tax, and given it to the au
ditor of accounts ; and it only remains for the
legislature to demand of Newcastle county ore
hilfor three fourths of the state's tax, and they
have it completely in tlieir power to impose the
same anti enforce the payment.
liut 1 have done. When l commenced, the
hope nearest my heart was that, the ideas being
thrown our, and the principal facts advanced
«orne more competent pen would have assumed
the subject. When leisure and convenience ad
mit I shall endeavor to acquaint my fellow citi
zens with some of the important measuiesjwh.ch
the leghl.ture, in their gieat wisdom, consider
ed impolitic to grant to tlieir constituents.
BP-L'TUS.
,0.
Laws of the United States.
We this day complete the publication of the Laws of
the second session of the Eleventh Congress. The
following is a list of their titles, with reference to
the dates when they respectively appeared in this
, Gazette : —
An act to authorise the transportation of
ccr am documents fieo of postage.— Dtc<tuber
20, I 809.
An act supplemental lo ah ect, entitled " an
act extending the right of suffrage in the Indi
ana tei ritory, and for other purposes."— De
cember 23.
An act extending the time for issuing and lo
cating military land warrants .—January 3,
1810.
An act for the relief of William and Elias
Rector .—January 10,
Resolution, relating to the official correspon
dence between the «ecretai y of state and Fran
cis J. Jackson, minister plenipotentiary ot his
Britunnic majesty .—January 22.
An act to revive and continue in force for a
further time, the first section of the act, cili
tled " an act further to protect the commerce
and seamen of the United States against the
Barbary powers ."—January 27.
An act to extend certain privileges therein
mentioned to Joseph Joshua Uyster.— Februa
ry 14.
An act for tbe relief Harry Caldwell and
Amasa Jackson, Jeremiah Reynolds and Levin
Jones.— February 17.
An act authorising the discharge of W il liant
Hawkins front his imprisonment .—March 7.
An act to prescribe the mode in which aj»
plication shall be made for tbe purchase of Und
the several land offices; and lor the relief
at
of Joab Garret .—Mutch 7.
An act to revive an act, entitled ** an act for
the relief of the refugees from the British pro
vinces of Canada and Nova Scotia, and for other
purposes ."—March 7.
An act making-appropriations for the sup
port of government during the year one thou
sand eight hundred at-.d ten .—March 14.
An act for tii? app—ntm.-nt of an additional
judge and extending tbe right of suffrage to
the citizens of Madison county, in the Missis
sippi territory .—Minch 17.
An act making appropriation!! for tbe sup
port of the navy of the United States, for the
veut- on« thousand eight hundred and ten.—
March I 7 •
An act niak'ng appropriations for the sup
port of tbe military establishment of the U.
States, for the year ci-e thousand eight hundred
anil ten — March 2 k.
An act to extend the time for the locating
Virginia millltuy land warrants, and for return
ing the surveys thereon to the secretary ol the
deparn,em of war .—March 21.
An act to prevent (be issuing of sea letters,
to certain vessel «.—April -t.
An act to make pubi c a road in Washington
romity in the district i f Columbia .—April 7.
An act for the rdiet ol Tristram ilusscy.-—
April 21.
An act to alter and amend an act, entitled
" An -cf providing for the third census or i no
mcrulioti af the inhabitants of the U. Staus,"
passed I he Chilli day of March, I 810 .—April 21.
An act providing for I l.c thiid census or enu
mera-ionof the inhabitants of the U. States.—
April 25.
An.ut authorising tbe discharge of Julm
Keir from liis imprisonment. —May 2.
An act for t lis relief of William Baynlnttn.
April 23.
An act to amend an net t milled " An net for
the is'ahhahment of a turnpike company, in
the chnnty of Alexundti:-, ill the district of
Columbia ."—May !>
An act to allow the benefit of drawback on
nierchaiitl'ze transported by land conveyance
from Newport to Boston, am: fir
B-iston to
Newport, in like mu
is d the same were
met
transported const" is
May 5.
An act lor the relief of Moses Young.—
May 2.
Alt -act for the relief of John N. Stout.—
Feb. 28.
An act m addition to the " Act to regulate
the laying out anti malt ng a toad litmt I'um
beilaltrl in the state of Maryland to the state
of Ohio."— Feb. 28.
An act for alteimg the time for holding the
district court in Ohio.— fprii 4.
An act making an appropriation for the pnr- t
pose of trying the [Tactical use of Torpedo and
sub-marine explosion -April 7.
An act to extend the t-me for locking Vit
eir.ia military land warrants, and for returning
the stnveys thereon to the secretary of the de
4 .**•„,*„ /-./id *
parlnieiil ot war.— 11 .
1 „ r « •
An act to incoi»orate a company Tor making
. , 1 . • .... -, , ^
certain turnpike roads m the otstr.ct o. tolum
)ia. - -a/l ■
An act to amend an act, entitled " An act
r .... .. t •
for the establishment ol a turnpike company in -
, r .t 1 ..V,
the county of Alexandria, m tin: district oi Co
lumoia.**— A-fui/ .0.
An act concerning the commercial inter
between the Un ted States and Great
course
Britain and France and tlu-ir dependencies, ami
May 12.
for other purposes.
An act to erect a light house ot tue entrance
of Scituate htubour, a stone column on a sp : t
sp
entrance into Boston harbor.
of sand on tire
and a beacon on Beach point near Plymouth
Itatbor, in the state of Massachusetts ; u fight
at the entrance of Bivou St. John into lake
Poncharlrain and t"o lights on lake Erie, anti
for beacons and buoys, neat the entrance of
lieverlv Itatbor
May 12.
»An act concerning invalid pension, rs .—May
Id.
An act providing for printing and dNtiibu
tin-" „neb laws of the Ut-.tcd States us respect
the pub! c lands .—Map Id.
An act concern.ng post roads .—May 1 9 and
23.
An act for the relief of T. C. L'Enfant—
Man 23.
An act fixing the compensation of public
ministers and of consuls residing on tue toast
of Barbary, and for other purposes .—Slap 26.
An act for Ute relief of Arthur St. Glair.—
May 2G.
An act for the relief of William W. Wav
nioulli and Joseph P. Weeks.— >lau
2b.
An act further to aber and amend " An art
providing for the third
census or etiumetation
ol the inhabitants of .the United States .—:.:ay
30.
An act j,o extend the lime for mojt-ng pay
ment for the public lands of the United States
in ret tain cases .—May 30.
An act making appropriation for coming in
to effect cettaif Indian treaties.—.if -/ 50.
An act authorising a loan of money, for a
exceeding the amount of the princi
sunt not
pal of the public debt, reimbursable during tbe
thousand eight hundred and ten.—
year one
June 2.
An act providing for the sale of certain lands
in the Indiana territory, and lor oilier purposes.
June 2.
An act providing for the better accommo
dation of the general Post Office and Patctit
Onice, and for other purposes .—Fane ti.
An act in addition to an act, entitled " An
concerning the Library for the use of both
act
houses of congress .—June 0'.
An act making further appropriations for
completing the Capitol, and for other purposes.
June () . _
An act allowing compensation to Robert Ro
binson .- — lune tf.
An act confirming the decisions ot the com
mis'ioners in favor of the claimants of land in
the district of Kaskaskia .—Jiine 6.
Resolution proposing an amendment to the
(onstitution of the United States ,—June tf.
BANK of DEL AW ARK,
tu h mu. 1 if. 18 1 1 >
AT an Llection he'd this day, for choo*u
Directors for the ensuing year, on counting
lb
votes it appeared the following persons were
]y elected to wit : Thomas Lea, William II
pliill, John liiyeky John Ferris«, Samuel N
chois, Joseph li.iilv, John Utdiiik, James Cat
by and Edward Tatnall.
And at a subsequent meeting of the Boar-'.
T/i->mns {.ni having declined a re-election to the
Presidency, Joseph Haiti/ was unanimously ap
pointed to that station,
A Mill tk small Farm for sale.
ILL cerndnly be sold at public auction,
w
on the 2'jd day of June next on the pvt -
mises, h Merchant and Grist Mil!, with 2 ;
tic- es of highly manured land, which lit
ptr
(bleed 30 bushel.-, of wlicti.und 60 bushels ol
corn to the acre, with a complete buck dwel
ling-house of modern finish, and necessary
out buildings for every comfort. It is z miles
below the lied Lion Tavern, New Castle cent -
ty, Del. • on tlu! road to Driver, under good
fence, und the mill just repaired i.nd tit work.
With it is 1 d acres of Woodland, and 8 «ires
prime marsh meadow at a small distance, anJ
will lie sold separate or together. The terms
will he credit, out a gem mus discount seemed
fur cash payi.-.LUt to uceotlHlict
*.e ir.ot.Lil
men.
The property would peculiarly sut: p-rscir.s
i f case am! indu «try, and especially those from
the lower counties e! Delaware or West Jer
sey, as the air and climate would vary little
from lite r own. The public may he assured
ot a saie, e-vt-n tit a reduced price, having
mo
vtd font it for mat put pose.
Jesse Higgins.
N. B. The whole mav he had at private sale
for the iow price of 3,300 dollars.
May 3Ö, 1810.
Is
If the editors of the Aurora and the United
States Gaz. tte, will give the «o-.ve a ph.ee
in
tlieir country ptipci'S. their bills shall be pai
at tile post-office \\ imingtqn.
400 DOLLARS liEWAKD.
»WAY from the subscriber, livin'«
,
A , .
mi- Huivtingtowri,
t < '. i " vc,t " uinl ) > 1
DICK, BAZ1L,
f'nî r'" S "TT' iv• -
V 1A « L, * b JIM : , 18 W*
,ctt s ,' x 1 or %'»'« >«»*« Ittgh. .?« « dirk
complexion and thin vwgc. Ban, is 2 - years o',
"S e > a ^ ut . bve 'T a « hl or '°f 1R «'* a
very blaL.c cornp.ex.ion, ami rather of a law
.. J , • r *
lace ; he has a sear over one or bis eye«;, ocru*
. . ,, . , \
siueed bv a blow, and nan veiy large tccr.—
C(wr , M is 22 yMf8 c y agc , ab „* iu ° icet one
inch (gai, j a w e!l ma, If, at:-! ot a very blaek
. . - '• J
complexion : he has at times lor sotv.p vc;.vs nakt
- / r , • , m i., 'd
worked in a nla».K8initn s shop. J;,yi is j0
yeata
old, about six feet high, and of a daik eomuKx
ion ; he is a osfpenlir by tiadr. Then clolllll-fr
cannot be described, as it i» very probable they
will change it—Chailcs mok with him a white
woollen country cloth jacket, and a pair oT d.
t.
an:
gicen cloth trowsets—Jim nan with him a (due
cloth jacket, and a pair of white woollen country
t
doth trowsers: he also has with him a bread
axe sn-.t an iron square. The aforesaid slaves
were seen near Milfoid in Delaware, and it is
supposed they have gone to Wilmington, and
supposed they have gone to Wilmington, and
probable front tbcr.ee to Pniladelphia and Ihn
Jerseys. The above rcwaul will be given to
any peipon who will appichend the said slaves
an.I secure them in jail, so that the subscribes
gets them again, or One hundred dollars for either
of them. Should any person appichend those
slaves, he will inform the subscriber by letter,
where lie resides.
Thomas C. Cantt.
M.y 5, 1310.
tf
SALT FOR SALE,
In Philadelphia,
N OW landing, Horn on hoard the ship Phil
adelphia, at Brights' whatf, above Race
cargo ol Cadiz SALI', of the first
stieet,
qua! ty. And from on board the ship Halcyon,
at the same place, a raigo of coarse SALT, first
qi ably, from the Isle i f Mav. Enquire of
JOSEPH REYNOLDS,
No. 1 53. north Whiter st. Phil.
Who intends keeping a regular supply of s$!t,
.l.arf, which he will sell ott the most
d
: tenet.
reasena
May 12, 1810.
fir
For Sa!
<- J
valuable tract of LAND, situate
VERA
A
in tiie county of New-Cu«t!e, in the state of
Delaware, about 13 acres of Land—one mile
Irom Wilmington, on the Kennet Road, with ft
new Stone House, a well of good water at the
door, a young orchard and sinne of the best eatly
fruit, and a stream of water running through
which amply supplie* the lots. Enquiteof
ANDREW CRIPS, jun. or
JOHN CRiPS,
Jn Wilmington.
April 25. 1310.
4lt|
REMOVAL.
MATTHEW KEAN,
NFORMS liis friends and the public in gen
I
eral, that he has removed tu 'be house lately
occupied by Nathan Basserf, a feSy doors b r i w
Third street, directly opposite Jeremiah Wool
ston's grocery store, where tie offers for sale a
handsome assortment of seasonable goods or
moderate terms,
if
Wilmington, April 21, 1819,
