" Reduction of the Army.
»
It stated on the authority of the NtwQrieaiitt
Gizelte, that Gen. Hunfilon has given the com.
rnand of the troops to Col. Cushing, and is about
to proceed to the northward for the benefit of
his health.
[Thus has the air of that destructful climate already
infected that hardy veteran) long innured to the damp
and unhealthy vapors of the Carolina swamps ; but
which, to the positions selected for encampments by
Wilkinson, are pure oxygene compared to virulent
Since- the purchase of Louisiana few per
miasma.
discover the policy of govern
»one have been able
ment, in making the Mississippi the head quarters of
the American army. The old anti seasoned troops
■who had then long been deemed sufficient for the de
fence of our frontier posts, (even when threatened by
Spanish invasion,) together with such auxiliary assist
ance as could be afforded, in case of necessity, from
the resident militia» and the western volunteers, seem'
ed ir. tht opinions of most well-informed men, to be
adequate to all military emergencies that could reason
ably be looked for in that quarter. Was it not then,
in order to eratify the avarice and pride of Wilkinson,
the height of cruelty—did it
display a brutal insen
*\ Will tv of the sufferings of others, to enlist
troops
from the Eastern states to be deported to this Ameri
can Walchercn, there to be destroyed by the humid fc
pestilential air of the country, while employed iucear
ing the sugar plantations of that suspected and im*
peached favorite ? That man-, to whom Tallyrand is
but a child in intrigue, and Genet but a tyro in diif
£lic»ty !
The history of the encampment at Terre aux Boeuf,
il a history of human suffering and misery tha r would
draw a tear from the most insensible and obdurate-
and when that pestilential encampment was raised for
the purpose of removing rhe few emaciated survivors
of this once select and robust set of men, six out of
ten could scarcely move their skinny skeletons forward
-««white their geheral was snugly Seated in the most
healthy parts of the country, laughing at the creduli.
ty of his own government in becoming so easily his
dupe, counting the proceeds of his Spanish pension ;
and, while many of his
. were famishing for a
draught of pure water, he was quaffing the rich wines
of Andalusia out of golden goblets. Justice, th6ugh
slow is certain and inflexible ! These iniquities will be
visited some where—God grant they may fall alone
on the guilty ]
Thermal to connect the Potomac bv the Ty her,,
with the Eastern Branch, was. on the 2d insucom
in.nccd with great ceremony. The présidant L T . S
and family, accompanied by the officers of govern
ment and of the city, and a vast concourse of citizens,
attended the ceremony of opening the ground, which
was performed by the president, who,having formally
received a spade from th« president of th* company,
very gracejully turned up the first sod, amidst the
acclamations of all present! There Is a little spot in
the human mind too much prone to pay homage to
great men ; and even in the compositions of these
same great men, there is an ingred - it that can digest
flattery so gross, and adulation so disgu singly fulsome,
as would excite a nausea in s neater stomachs.
At a meeting of the mcmbti
of the Union Har
monic Society, of Wilmington, on.Thursday
eningi
10 h in»t. the following gentlemen were duly ejected
to fill the different offices of said society, viz.
President —Rev. Dr. Head.
Wce-PruidenU —Hev. Wm Prycc, Dr. J Briackle.
Treasurer —John Rumsay.
Secretary —Joseph Downing
Teachers— E. K Dare, A. Fobes.
Committee— ^Dr. James Tilton. Rev. D. Dodge,
Rev. Samuel. Henderson, Samuel Car
nah*n» Arlan Thomson, Aaron Faul
i n, James Brown.
The republican majority calculated on in New York,
to a moral certainty, will amount to eight thousand,
and a majority of thirty-five members in the assem
kly- This teils well t
Jrtarengo Sheep.—Jacob Gibbon, E«q. of Eastctt,
Maryland,. advenUes an improved breed of sheep,
named from bis farm " Marengo." Twenty pairs of
these he promises to send to Baltimore market, at
30dollars per pair. lie will *• warrant that these
sheep shall weigh from 270 to 300 lbs per pair," and
that they shall yield " from 18 to 22 lb's, flec-cc."_
This is certainly an instance of patriotic emulation
which deserves the thanks of the friends to American
manufactures and improvements.
An improvement in tor breed- of sheep does not
come unexpected from Jacob Gibson, as lie has so long
t-cn the bell-'wedJer of party on the Eastern Shore.
DIED.—On the night of Sunday, the 15th
hit. in the jail of King and Queen county, Vir.
JOHN ROAN, jun. accused ol the horrid
ui me of murdering his wile. On his exam
ination in routt lie confessed liimscir guilty;
possibly under, the influence of that peturbed
w deranged state of mind under which the act
■»self muy have hue perpetrated. He confess
til himself guilty, as it is understood, on the
ip'or.Kl uf motives forever to be buried in FJs
own breast, but which it is believed existed,
only in ids
disturbed imagination. He
died in the night (havingbeen long indisposed,)
*bl his
s dissected next day, ami no
■nuil.r. of violence
were found on him. The
particulars of iris d
h are no; known to the
mi
.r.
'.'to Bucks cctVc
i the 28d of Apr.I, at
Alms ! I
•h won>'-'i|»<t na
live of mat county, and formerly the property
of Mr. I.anghonie, of l.anghorne park,
1 let
ajjts cannot be very correctly ascertained, hut
from information obtained from herself, and
some corresponding circum'tances. it app ars
she was at lenst 1 tC years old.
She retained
tier faculties until within a few days of het
death.
-■ At Columbia, Ohio, Mr. John Pka.i
son, lit* of the town of Salem, Mass, lie was
on hi« way to Natchez with hi» family, and «II
were taken down with the snitll pox, while on
the river passing down from Pittsburg, o
f which !
lie died. If is grrally tol>e lamented thatfso ma.
ny remain exposed to th ; s dreadful diseJlk wli^n
a remedy is so easily to be obtained. ** .>
—a-a.. .Id.
By Yesterday's S. and E. Mails j
tCT Fhe papers hy yesterday's Mail
were
extremely barren of intelligence ,,f any immedi
ate import. The Aumra article respecting the
arrival of the carvette John Adams, in the Chesa
peake, proves to he premature. '•
<ont
From Irish papers at the ojpxe Bait. Whig v
EARTHQUAKE.
Wc have been favourer) with the follow,
ing extract of a letter front the Cape of
Good Hope, dated Dec. 1809.—
•* A» you will probably have heard of the
earthquake, which has taken place here, J
wish to let you know that I am perfectly
well, having escaped injury, much alarmed,
ft took place on the fourth of this month ;
the first shcrak about a quarter after ten at
nighf. We were rousatl up suddenly by a
must, violent, "knid, Inriiaw, rumbling, sub
terraneous sound, with'a considerable de
gree cf motion over th# entire house ; which
from its ctacking atitf rocking, we imagin
ed it could not stand. The belis rung most
violently, ; we therefore m„de
our escape
as far as possible into the open air.
This
shock continued about a minute, and alter
a moment's calm, was succeeded by a sec
ond one, much more alarming and heavy
than the first,anti attended with all the same
symptoms, bu. in a much more terrible de
gree, and proceeded like it from the centre
of the Table Mountain, nearly due south,
into the cea : the sky perfectly clear and
bright with stars and not a cloud to be seen.
This shock continued about two
minutes.
and was most dreadlul. There were three
others within the space of half an hour from
the first, all comparatively slight. The
chief svmptons, during this most awful phe
nomenon, were—-the dogs barking & howl
ing most terribly ; watches and clocks eU
thcr stopping entirely or else lousing time ;
the bells in all the houses ringing violently ;
houses cracking from top to bottom i the
earth discharging water in places hitherto
d.y ; and the stars shooting in every direc
tion across the sky—.We have had lesser
ones, either hy nignt or day, ever since,
which leaves us in the most unpleasant
statt* of suspence.
" To attempt giving an idea of the con -
fusion and dismay ol the inhabitants and e
very chess of people, is quite out of my pow
JVIust of them, were in bed at the time,
if.
and in a moment the streets and govern
ment gardens were filled with ail ages, sex
es, and colours, nearly tiaked.,. screaming
and wringing their hands, ity expectation of
being swallowed up every moment. They
remained out the whole night, since which
time they have pitched tents in the different
squares and open places, where they remain
during the night ; nor do I think they will
be induced to sleep in their houses for some
providentially, there were no live*
time.
lost, as no houses were actually thrown
down, hut many persons have been obliged
to take theirs to pieces, in consequence of
the injurv they have sustained. The the
during the whole time, be
ome'.er was,
tween 77 and 78.
. - PhilADE t-pittA, May 11.
On Tuesday last arrived at Alexandria,
the ship Diana, from Lisbon. This vessel
has brought over à few of the, real Spanish
Merino Sheep—we understand that there a
ram and ewe for lire late president of the
United States, (Thomas Jtlferson, Esq.) a
rani and ewe for the present president, and
the balance to the care of James H. Hone,
Esq. being 12 in number.
' ç
HURRICANE.
Cal. Af.awhas politely favoured us yr jththc
following extract of a letter from"- (Col.
Hawkins , dated \
" Cri:f,x Acænct,
" April 1st, 18IO.
« On the 27th of March, the Thermom
eter was in the morning 42—at 3 o'clock it
stood at 80—at to at night 72— the fore
part of the day clear—the sun descended
to il—the
with rays of cloud: pointing
evening was serene—at 4 o'clock in the
morniog on the 28th, it began to thunder in
the we»t—two clouds nearly parallel to each
other appeared, raising slowly in that quar
ter ; the thunder continued at short inter
vais for half an hour, but tier direction cf
'he electric fluid was more from cloud to
cloud than towards the earth, The clouds
exhibited the grern. vellow and blue, mixed
as they rose, resembling before their disper
sion the color of the Paroquet,
About 5
o'clock a hurricane passed us, and with its
skirt unroofed half our houses, nearly took
off that of your residence ; its centre pass
ed through the lower part of my fields an
easttvardlv direction, and. prostrated for
half's tnilcim width nine tenths of the trees
within the scope of its action ; its fury was
spent in five! Seconds; passing, it seemed to
burst over 1rs, and discharge five inches of
water in 10 seconda; it was succeeded by
a dead calm the whole -day ; where it- com.
menced or terminated,.I know not."
Georgia Journal.
Citrrespundents —•* brums" unavoidably omitted. .
■
SALT FOR SALE,
In Philadelphia,
TVTOW landing, from on hoard the ship Phil
x a le'phia, at Brights' wharf, above Race
a cargo of Cadiz SALT, of the first
■i •«•(•»,
tj U'« l ty.
And from on board the ship Halcyon,
at tin* same place, a cargo of coarse SAUT, first
qi.iklity, from the Isle of May. Enquire of
JOSEPH REYNOLDS,
No.^ 1 58, north Water st. Phil.
Who intends keeping a regular «ifpply of salt,
on said wharf, which he wiil sell on the most
reasonable terms,
M-y.12, 1810.
Gt
For Sale,
A vai jUABLE plantation, on which the
subscriber has lived, and been employed im
proving for several years—.containing about 260
acres, two anti an half miles from Wilmington,
and ncu.iy the same distance from New Castle,
laying on the west side of the new road to
Clark's alias Read's corner. As any attempt to
do justice in describing the advantages this farm
possesses, would, to those who are strangers to
the land and improvements, appear extravagant,
therefore, those who may be inclined to purcha-e
are left to enquire and examine for themselves.
The situation is a most desirable one, ami a.great
bargain may be had by an eatly application to
THOMAS MENDENHALL.
P. S. About eighty acres adjoining, a pio
portionate part of which is woodland, may be
had with or without the above farm.
Wilmington, May ", 1810.
Ml2 tf
REMOVAL
MATTHEW KEAN,
I NFORMS his friends and the public in gen.
er.-.l, that he has removed to the house lately
occupied by Nathan Bassett, a few doors below
Thud street, directly opjjosite Jeremiah VVool
slon's grocery store, vt here he offers for sale a
handsome assortment of seasonable goods on.
moderate terms.
Wilmington, April 21, 1810.
tf
NOTICE.
A Meeting of the Stockholders in the Bunk of
Wilmington and Brandywine is requested,
at the house of Edward Thomas,in Wilmington,
on Monday, th« 28th day of May next, at lour
o'clock, P. M.for the purpose of disposing - of the
Five Hundred reserved shares of said Stock. By
April 28th—9.
order of the Directors.
Advertisement .
THE SUBSCRIBER OFFERS FOR SALE
A SMALL FARM,
C ONTAINING about forty-tight acres of
land lying in East Nottingham, 1'cecil on
un
ty, Maryland, on two public roads, leading from
the Brick Meeting- House to New London Cross
Roads, and from Lancaster to Elkton, one mile
and three quarters from the Brick Meeting
House,, six-miles from the Cross-Roads, about
thirty oti-lcs from Lancaster, and elevtn miles
from Elkton, on the main waggon road from
Little Britain Township to Christiana Bridge,
the situation is healthy, pleasant, and hand omr,
and as gond a stund for a tavern and store, as
»here is in the'neighbout hood.
»'here is erected on the premises a large two
story Log House, with a store house and kitchen
adjoining, all has been rough cast,.good »tables,
a well of very good water, about t-Wo hundred
Peach Trees, just begun to bear, somcolher fruit,
trees of different kinds ; about fifteen actes of it
'
in woodland- and some of the ground laying -1
tandsome for meadow. As it is presumed that
no person will incline to purchase without see
ing the property, a farther description is deemed
unnecessary. An iiuhsputa-blr title will be made,
and possession given to suit the purchaser, am!
the terms made known by applying to
JOHN CHANDLEE.
fit
April Iff,' 1810,
For Sale*
VERY valuable tract of X-AND, situate
A
in the county of New-Castle, in the state of
Delaware, about 18 acres of Land—one mile
from Wilmington, on the Kennet Road, with a
Stone House, a well of good water at the
new
door, à young orchard apd some of the best early
(fruit, and a stream of water running through
which amply supplie» the lots. Enquire of
ANDREW CRIPS, jun. or
,
JOHN CRIPS,
In Wilmington.
41 q ;
April 25, IBIV.
Whi'lç-Hall F arm,
St. Georges Hundred, Nr
Castle Ctruntij,
W
I arid state of liclatvare ,
r TlHE subscriber otters at private sale, ilia
M above farm, with the valuable marsh there
to belonging, situate upon the St. Augustine anil
Silver Run creeks, making in the whole 450
actes. ,
, For fertility of soil, beauty of situation, elega
nee
of improveincr t, aijd healthiness, this farm start ts
unrivalled in-this state, It lies 8 miles from the
waters .of.tbs Chesapeake, 3 ftom the river
L>.la
ware, 4.ft0tu Cantwell's Bridge, 18 miles ftprti
Wilmington, (and near the »'.»ty,road leading to
it,) a rut in-the vicinity of die village known by
the name of the Trap. It has been cultivated
for eighteen years past upon the clover and plais
ter plan, and for that ptuiocl. (iO or. 70 acres of
clover have been mowed annually.
1 hose who are inclined to purchase may,.by
applying on the h.rm, view the premises-,, and*
■ know the terdis cliher by apj'dying.to himself or
his- son William C. Frazer, reading at ÎJew
Castle.
WILLIAM rRAZF.il.
White Hall Farm, April .11 , 1810.
tf
If the farm is not sold at private sale, it will be
sold.on the premises ait Friday the fhät day of
June, it-will command annually to a certainty
from 1000 to 1200 dollars. W. j<\
Turks Island 1 Salt and' Antigua
Rum.
OW landing from on board the sloop J nr,,
N
rapt, A ork, at Mendenhall»' wharf. 3,00t)
bushels Turks Island'SALT—2" bilde. Antigua
RUM of a superior quality—for »ale by
SÀMii. & mOs. HANSON.
May 2, 18-10.
if. .
4Ö0 DOLLARS REWARD.
An AWAY from the luÜ'scriHérj living
R
ip Calvert county, near Hur.tiflgUiwn,.
u i. DICK, 6AZ1L,
the following
negroes,
CHARLES jmd. JIM.
Dick is ."7 years of age,
about five fc'et six or e.ght inches h.-gh, of a dark
complexion and thin visage. Bazil is 86 years of
about five fief eight or ten-inches high, of a
c,
very black complexion-; and- râtiier of- ri- long
face; he has a scar over one of- hi's: eyes, occa
sioned by a . blow; and has very large'feet.—
Charles is 22 years- of age,- about five feet one
inch high, is well made, and of a very black
complexion ; he lias at times for some years past
worked in a blacksmith's shop. Jim is 30' y cars
oid, about six fett high, and r.f a dark complex
ion; he is a carpentci byTheir clothing
cannot be described, es ir is Very probable they
took with him-a whits
will change it—-C 1
woollen country cloth j
k t,.and a prdr of dark
green cloth trovvseis—Jint has with- ,him a blue
cloth jucket, and a pair of white woollen country
cloth t row sers : he also hair-with-him a broad"
iron square. The aforesaid,slaves
axe and
were seen near Milford in Delaware, and it is
.supposed they have gone to Wilmington, and!
probable from thence to Philadelphia and the
Jerseys. The above reward will be given (o',
any pcison who will apprehend the »aid slaves
and secure them in jail, so that thfc subscriber
gets them again, or one hundred dollars for either
of them. Should any person apprehend tho»e
slaves, lie will inform the subscriber by letter,
where he resides.
Thomas C. Gantt.
May 5, 13 TO.
tf
NO i ICE.
T
1I1S is to give notice, that the subscribers of
_ Talbot county, in the state of Maryland,
have obtained from the Orphan's Court ol Tal
bot county, in Matylnnd, letters of administra
tion on the personal estate of John Itolitrh, !.. tr
ot Talbot county aforesaid, deceased. All per
having claims against the said deceased, are
»sons
hereby warned to exhibit »ha same, with the
vouchers lhc:co"f to the subscribers, at or ß< foie
the 4th day of November next ; they may other
wise by law be excluded ftom. all benefit of tl ( e
said estate. Given under- our hands this 20th
day of April, gnno domini 1810.
BENJAMIN ROBERTS, &
SAMUEL GOSS AGE, Adm're;
. May S, 1810;
w3t
Land for Sale,
T HE subscriber, intending to leave this Sfate
in tfic course nilf the ensuing-month, offers
to »«11 a SMALL FARM, çcmainir-g 130 acres,
more or les», of FRIMÊ LAND, situated in
about three miles
Newcastle county, Delaware,
from the town of Fort Penn,
same
•id five mile*- from
distance from St. George 1 »,, a
; to dispose of the
V.'ishi
Cantwell'» Bti
be would make the
ill's d
Land b
"in
rly application is made to
' terms. iuvîtÎBâ,
Dr. David Bi^wast, or to
. J. V. STEWART.
8f ,
Port Penn. April 26, (28 ),
TO BE LET,
ND pofsefsion given immediately, a large
A
and coniniod'ous two. story tx'ick house,
fituatcwl on the east side of King-street, late-:
ly occupied hy Mrs. Oldham, together with
a stable and carriage-house. For terms ap
ply to
WILLIAM RANKIN.
VVUmmgton April 7, 1809-—tf.
To be Sold,
A TRACT or parcel of Mardi, situate in
L A Appoquinimink hundred ayrl county of
New-Castle, adjoining land late of 'J'homas Lis
and laud of William Frager, containii
a
ton
. Enquire of Airs. L
I FLY
bout Fifty !
:res
CLARK, near Cantwell's-Bridge, or
JOSEPH B. M'KFAN.
PhiladeJ;
