of
al,
3Utu g of tpe fllnton.
[By Authority.]
An act authorizing the accounting officers of the Trea
sury Department to give credit to certain Collectors
of the Customs for allowances paid by them to the.
id crews of fishing vessels.
owners
! house of repre
BE it enacted by the senate
sentatives uf the United Statesof America, in Con
gress assembled, Th.it the accounting officers ol
the Treasury Department be, and they are here
by authorized, in settling tite accounts of the
Collectors-of the Customs, to give them credit
for the respective sums which have been or may
be paid for allowances to the owners ami crews
of fishing vessels, in lieu of drawback of the du
ties paid on the salt used by the same, to the thir
ty-first of December, one thousand eight hun
or
dred and seven.
J. B. VARNUM,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
ANDREW GREGG,
President of (he senate pro tempore.
June 28, 180J).
JAMES MADISON.
Approved,
AN ACT
Making appropriâtioi» for defrayrng the expence of
Stationary, Priming, and all other contingent ex
igences of the Senate and Home of Representatives,
during the present session of Congress.
BÊ it enacted hy the senate and house of repre
sentatives o f the United States of America , in Con
gress assembled. That for defraying the expence
of stationary, printing, and all other contingen i
i the Seriate and House of Represent
expert ces o
ativrs, during tite present session of Congress,
the sum of nine thousand dollars lie, ami the
same hereby is appropriated, payable out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropri
ated.
J. P. V ARNUM,
Speaker of the Home of Representatives.
to
ANDREW GREGG,
President of the senate pro Unipore.
I.tne 28, 1809.
to
Approve»,
JAMES MADISON.
AN ACT
hy
Concerning ihe Maval establishment.
TIE it enacted bn the senate ard house of repre
to
sentatio'es o f the United States of A
press assembled* Tlut the President ot' the Unit
ed States, in die event of a favourable change in
oof foreign relations, he and he i* hereby autho
rised to cause to be discharged from actual sei
vice ami laid, up in ordinary, such of the frètes
and public armed vessel** as in h;s fuel
tut, ;
due re£
ird to the public security ami interest
will permit.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted) Tbit,
so much of the first teetton of an act, entities
" An act to.tuthorise the employment of an ad
ditional naval force," passed at the last session of
Congres*, as requires the public armed vessels
to he stationed at such porta and places on the
sea coast, or croise on rhe sea coast of the United
States and teiritories thereof, be and The same *s
hereby repealed.
J. B. VAHNUM,
Speaker of the Htm.se nf Rt
t'St n lathes.
ANDREW G RECCE
President of the senate />; j tempOre ..
.Tone 23, 1809.
JAMES MADISON.
Ai' PROVED,
AN ACT
Treeing from prstage all letters and packets from
Thomas Jefferson.
PE it enacted by the senate and house of repre
sentatives of the United States of America, in Con
press assembled, That all letters and packen* from
Thomas Jefferson, late President of the United
States, during his life, shall be received and con
veyed by post, free of postage.
J. B. VARNUM,
t Speaker of the House of Representatives.
' ANDREW GREGG,
President of the senate pro tempore.
June 28, 1809.
JAMES MADISON.
Approved,
OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE.
Between the ministers of France and Aust
ria, prior to the commencement of hostili
ties. —(Continued.)
No. mi.
Note from count de Metternich to count de
Champagne/.
Paris, July 22, 1808.
" The undersigned has received the note,
which his excellency the minister for fo
reign affairs, did him the honor to address
to him, and which was dated the 16th July.
** He hastened to transmit to his court,
the demand, in favor of Mr. Young, lieu
tenant of the 2d regiment of Polish infan
try. The fact, that (notwithstanding the
regularity of the passports with which that
officer was furnished, and which obtained
for him admission into Gallic - !» w ithout any
difficulty) lie was placed under arrest, un
fortunately proves to the undersigned that
it must have been his personal conduct,
which provoked the interference of the po
lice against him What that conduct was,
the undersigned will without doubt hasten
to get information of in order that he may
be able to furnish to his excellency M. de
Champagne every* explanation relative to
•hat a-!
t The interest which the
court
of France takes in the case of this individu
al, is sufficient in every respect to excite
that of his imperial royal, and apostolic
ma
jesty.
" The complaints, which appear to have
been made in the duchy of VVarsaw, res
differ
pecting the great difficulty attending
ent exportation» Irom the Austrian monar
chy, can, if really some privations have been
experienced, only relate to administrative
measures, which the undersigned does not
hesitate to declare to he general, and to ap
ply to all the country bordering on the pro
where such measures may have been
vince
He knows too well
put into execution,
the tenor of the instructions given to all the
chiefs of the provinces, to admit lor a mo
the possibility of partial prohibitions
ment
obstacles, being exercised against no o
or
ther country but that occupied by the
French troops. The government of Gal
licia, beside* has been lor too long a time
tested, to be suspected in A moment of
peace, of a partiality, that never could be
imputed to it, even when the flames ol war
raged on the great part of our frontiers,
and since the proofs of this Fact have been
pronounced by the emperor Napoleon him
self.
The couvt of Vienna is far from for
44
getting the measures taken by France, in
the duchy of Warsaw, for establishing
trait
quility and harmony with its neighbors }
and it were desirable without doubt, that
the same views and sentiments were those,
exclusively, which influenced all the au
thorities and people of that new state. But
without attributing more to those last than
thev deserve, his imperial, royal aud apos
tolic majesty will not cease to instruct the
administrations of his provinces, to behave
to ail his neighbors with the most exact im
partiality : and there is no person employ
ed, who ought not on his side to take care
to enter completely into t..e views of his
court, in interpreting its orders in a sense
the most strict in favor of places occupied
hy French troops.
" The undersigned, being equally eager
to call the attention of his curt to this sub
ject, embraces the occasion to tender the
assurances,
No. V.
Special letter from count de Meter meh to
count dc Chantpagny.
Paris, July 22, 1808.
"Your excellency has done perfect jus
tice to mv intentions and principles : of
this your last letter has afforded me a flat
ertng proof, how can 1 better repay your
confidence titan by completely gratifying
the wishes you have expressed ?
" You require exnlanations relative to
the warlike preparations that are announc
ed, not onlt in the newspaper*, hut in the
correspondence from all the courts of Ger
many ; respecting the noise of war originat
ing iu Vienna and resounding throughout
the provirces ; in short, respecting the
measures which have been for some time
past developed in the interior i f the Aus
trian monarchy—There is but one of those
points, oil which I am well informed, or trt
which I would not willingly express my
self: I will not, however, separate them :
our measures of interior administration
have no connection with the rumors of war
which circulates in Germany and France.
" The Austrian monarchy finds itself in
a position entirely different' from that, in
which those administrative principles are
established, according to which it is partly
governed. The social institutions have
been changed within the last twenty years,
in the greater part of Europe. All the
states on this side of the Ysonzo, the Inn
and Bohemia, have become eminently mili
tary j all of them have adopted the princi
ples of a conscription, which embraces the
whole of the papulation. The French sys
tem of conscription, that institution by
which the French empire has been furnish
ed with so many resources, and which the
de
genius of the Emperor has developed and
applied, is not only put into execution in
two thirds of the continent, but forms
one
of the principal foundations of the social
compact in the constitutions of several new
states, particularly the kingdom of West
phalia. It is also introducing into the
duchy of Warsaw, Bavaria has establish
ed a constitution ; and the conscription is
there extended, contrary to the ideas, which
to this day govern the old state of Germany,
to the whole people—All Italy recruits its
armies by conscription.
" Austria is one of the first of the states
which has determined to complete its ar.
mies by conscription : other countries, such
as Hungary, 6tc. were, and yet are, exempt
from it ; hut it was not, nor is it extended
at this time to even the priviledged class of
the German provinces. Those exemptions
do not form the only point in which con
de
sists the great inferiority of our institution
compared with that of France:
to
ours is at
tended with imperfections, that there is no
remedy for, since above an eighth part of
our army returns every year to their homes,
as the terms for which they serve expire.
Our army was filled in a great part by men
who joined it from the old German states
of thé empire ; that source is cut off: and
the evil is felt more sensibly in proportion
as the new institutions are adoped in the
rest of Europe.
" The perfect state of quiet, the tranquil
and satisfactory relations existing between
Austria and all the powers of the continent,
pointed out to her the moment when, after
fifteen years of war and agitation, site might
at last put into execution, the plansconceiv.
ed and immediately adopted after the peace
of Presburg. She began by a reform the
most essential for her internal welfare and
the most urgent because she did not antici
pate any results until, after a lapse of seve
Id operate upon the great
sal years, she could operate upon the great
mass of lit r subjects. She wished to he
able to replace lire troops leaving lief ar
mies, by soldieis better prepared for ser
and mote accustomed to the use of
vice
and the words of command, so incom
arms
prchensihle to the greater part ot tite te
cruits raised among ten different people.
Site determined upon the formation ot re
serves, according to the institutions, organ
_ 0 to the inferiority of
izing them according to
our conscription, which she did not wish to
abandon entirely. The establishment of
}
resetveswas besides reccmmtnded lrom
adding to the
financial considerations ;
lia. I already at
lumbers of such corps, as
tamed their military compliment, withdrew
the people from agriculture und preyed up
on the treasury uf the state.
•* But all the citizens of Fi ance and of its
confederated states, are liable to lie called
to arms, without any distinction or ex
ception.—The inhabitants of the cities or
of the country ate bound to defend their
homes. We also wished to permit the pro
prietors of tite soil and the prtviledged dus
ses of the nation, to exercise that respecta
ble duty ; and we have established in the
German provinces a soft of stationary na
j
tional guard. The constitution of Hunga
ry called, at ail times all classes oi society
to tile defence of the country.
" This is what has been done, and the or.
dinances published in the months of May
and June will explain the whole object of
my court. No new corps has been raised ;
no assemblage of troops has taken place,
except on the frontiers of Turkey, which
the war between two neighboring powers
call* for it as a measure of security. There
is no one of the Austrian monarchy, who
mistakes either the spirit which actuates the
government those measures, or their ob
ject. They have the public approbation,
because the whole nation regards then as
ne'-essary to insure to the country respec
table means of defence : anil they would
accuse the court of an unpardonable neg
lect, if in the steps it had taken, it had re
mained behind those neighbors, who
though, to day in a state of peace, might
the next day become i s enemies. If
some
among,: them have been disposed to see,
in the reform of ancient institutions, and in
measures purely organized, offensive indi
citions, they mat he tranquil, for in those
:
measures themselves they will find the cer
tainty of the preservation ol peace. No
permanent institutions can be considered to
possess an offensive character : that state
in
must from its very nature he confined to
temporary efforts ; it has no existence what
ever with us. The formation of a reserve,
to replace soldiers quitting the army, can
not be considered an offensive treasure bv
you, any more than the introduction of a
military conscription into the duchy of
Warsaw, into Bavaria, and the confeder:
tion of the Rhine, can be so regarded by
us.
The friendship and interest which attach
Austria to France, the imperious necessity
we have for peace, and the known charac
by
ter of our emperor, insure, its duration.
" Your excellency has spoken of reports
of war, originating in Vienna, and
giving
uneasiness to a part of Germany,
in
You re
lieve me from a heavy hurden that
mv
mode of thinking (which only attends the
reports of this kind, when I am positively
compelled to it) enable me to sustain for a
long time*
No, they do not origi
nute in
Vienna, but reports of ws*r have arrived at
that place, which agitate as well the public,
is
as the court, which, until now, attached but
little credit to them.
" I hese are—the French corps who be
its
gin to re-assemble in Prussia, and who, in
part, have re-assembled in Silesia where all
the generals, officers and soldiers, without
exception, announce an intended entry into
Bohemia ; the military of the duchy of
Warsaw, who speak of what thev wish to
be believed, their anticipated entry into
of
Gaihcia, the German
newspapers, under
the controut of the c infedcrate states, who
do not cease to mention cessions which
we
are said to demand from France, and of né
at
gociations equally destitute of any found» •
no
tion of truth. All the reports which hi*
imperial ihajeSty might receive from Pa
ris, would inform him that an early attnc k
upon Austria was spoken of among all cla: -
of the public, spoken of for so long a
ses
time, and so directly inierruptiug the paci
fic relations between the two courts tbkt
they could not have escaped the vigilance
of the governmet j they would also prove
to him my constant anxiety to côrrtrndirt
I might furnish proofs
those false reports,
assertions, from the re.
of the first of those
port* of our military commandera, ui floht -
mia, from those of our civil- agents emploi -
ed on ail points of our frontiers, and Lly
letters which 1 received or which I have
seen, lt**m all parts of Germany- all of
which have the appearance of correctneis
respecting the reports circulated by the
Kreuch and confederate military. The
public newspapers above mentioned, and
our o-wn, are in the hands of every boslv
" It is several mouths since 1 inniradi* t*
ed those rumors, since I pledged myself
directly to nay court for their falsity, and
for the pacific views of the emperor Nape*.
Icon, an assurance that cannot have he*-«
received with incredulity. If a cliff, rent
interpretation had been given to those re
ports, the measures which tve took would
have been those of resistance ; f
but they
have been confined to an instruction
j not tu
he disturbed by the declarations
cr.rninu
from the French army, and to ike pr
re
lion of the most perfect tranquility iu the
interior of the monarchy.
" It was at the per-otl when those alarm**,
the first authors of which wcie entirely un
known to me because generally prevalent, that
deprived of all confidential communication with
the court bv which I was accredited, 1 e> mes
sed to the minister of general police my
ix
pedation that some encouraging articles rela
tive io the relations between France and Aus
tiia, would arrive to strengthen the argument»
of my court and my
own— a stell, winch, fa
the great satisfaction of the former, had all the
success which 1 had a right to expect fi
om a
French minister,
I notice lins fact htcuu.-.eit
brings to recollection a r.ircums
trice, tlie olv
j r t of which was to In liquidité tlve. Ar stnan
people, inspecting the alarms excited ftom a.
broad.
" Sour excellency docs justice to my court
it) mentioning its efforts to persuade the whole
ol Europa, that it is in a state of profuntidpeace,
and in perfect harmony with its neighbors—
that
.nee in particular demands nothing
;
bom it, not* pretends to any tiling belonging
to it, and that ir lias no vit w present or remote,
that should give it the least inquietude,
•Such -
is really our state of security—such is the eon-,
fiction that has so long'induced us to disregard,
what stock-jobbing furnishes to the injury of
the state, the rumors generally cîrrnlatcd in
places occupied by French troops, and in the
sûtes of the confederation of the Rhine. Oth
ervi-e I would not have taken a step, which,
if your excellency had been at Paris whotild
have afforded me. a new opportunity to prove to
you, that the only desire which animates is
that of maintaining the most perfect harmony
between our two governments.
" I presume that my note, of this day, rela
tive to the American vessels, will have -riven
all the information that his imperial and royal
majesty desired. 1 shall hasten to
communi
cate to him the result of the new enquiry,
which the emperor has directed, and for which
the documents have been forwarded from Tri
este to Vienna.
" Your excellency will receive without doubt,
a new denunciation respecting a direct inter
course between Austria and England. An
English flag of truce, is arrive* at Trieste_
this is a fact, upon which the
consul will not
be mistaken.
far irom hesitating I am eager
to remove confidentially and before hand, the
repoits which will be forwarded to Bayonne on
this subject. 7 he flag of truce was dispatched
a
by admiral Collingwood, in consequence of
of
advice>• received by the commandant of the
British forces in the Mediterranean, of tite in—
sut lection in Arragon, and of the proclamation
of Palafou : it was charged with a single letter,
from the admiral to the Archduke Charles—
which, referring to what it was supposed his
royal highness already knew respecting that
proclamation, offered him a frigate to convey
him to Spain. 1 he whole of that mission did
not merit answer—the commander of the flag
of truce, was told them was no answer for him
and that he must depart without one.
Proud of the union, which your cxcellcn.
lency has proposed, to me, of our efforts to
a
aintam harmony between out* courts, that
in
in
proposition as well a» the importance of the
subject itself, must be my excuse for the
at
length o. this letter. I will never vary or de
viate from my pritiwples—nor change my ma*
sures, if the former perfectly accord with
those of your excellency with regard to the
benefit that would result from a state of peace,
in
towards which all my views extend, I have no
merit for the latter. Convinced that mv sen
timents would be the better understood, if fully
explained, 1 have been anxious to
say too much
of
tather titan too little.
" I embrace this opportunity, will» pi
sa
to renew, &c."
(Signed)
MF.TTERNK
t
Utost THK NATIONAL
NTtLt.lCSNCEIt.
DEFENCE
0 /M Jrf .. ,
•
•No.
'r ' oris
