Congreflional üegtfîer.
In Senate.
February 7.
On motion of Mr. Bradley, the further con
sideration of the h> : 11 to engage a corps of va
lunteers for short period in the service of the
United States, was made the order of the day
for Monday next.
• Ftbrutu y 8.
The senate resumed the consideration of
Mr. Reed's motion for an amendment to the
constitution. On motion of Mr. Bayard, it
was made the order of the Iclay for Tuesday
next.
House of Representatives
February 7.
Mr. Basset, from the committee to whom
Was referred the petition of sundry office is
!
trie, navy of the United Stales, -reported a bill
" in relation to pensions anil rations of the of
ficers of the navy." Twice read and com
mitted.
The house resumed the consideration of the
report of the committee of the whole on the
bill authorising u detachment of the militia of
the Li. S.
And, after considerable debate the
further consideration of the same ivast postpo
ned till to-morrow.
February 8.
Mr. P. B, Porter, a!
a speech of consid
erable length on the subject of internal im
provements, and the benefits to be derived to
the United States from fostering and promo
ting them, offerer) the following resolution :
" Resolved, That a committee be appointed
to examine into the expediency of appropria
ting aipart of the public lands, or of the pro
ceeds thereof to the purposes of opening and
constructing such roads and canals as may be
most conducive to the general interests of the
union ; and that they have leave to report by
bill or otherwise."
After some conversation on the propriety of
authorising the committee to report by bill, the
resolution was agreed to without a division, and
a committee appointed consisting of twenty
members.
The bill to prevent the issuing of sea-letters,
except to certain vessels, was read a third time
and passed.
On motion of Mr. Lyon, the bill from the
senate in addition to an act to regulate the layitw
out and making a road from Cumberland in the
state of Maryland to the state of Ohio, was pas
sed through a committer u f the whole. Mr.
Milnor in the chair, and ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading to-morrow.
The house resumed the consideration of the
unfinished business 0: yesterday.
Mr. Southard moved to recommit the bill to a
select committee with a view to enquire into the
practicability of more equitably apportioning
the quotas than lias heretofore been done.
The motion was carried, Messrs. Southard,
(Fisk, Hots, Tulimadge and Dana suppôt ting
it, and the bill referred to a committee of twenty
members, and the house adjourned.
ofjtye Pinion.
[By Authority.]
AN ACT
To extend certain priviledges therein mentioned to
Joseph Joshua Hyster.
B E it enacted by the Senate and Home of
Representatives of the United States of :
America, in Congress assembled, That two
years residence as required by an act, ënti
tled " An,act to extend the prtviledge of
obtaining patents for useful discoveries and
inventions, to certain persons therein men
tioned : and to enlarge and define the penal
ties for violating the right of patentage,"
shall not be required of Joseph Joshua
Hyster, to enable him to obtain a pat
ent for any discovery he has made in con
structing iron bridges, and applicable to ot
her architectural purposes ; but he thail ob
tain a patent therefor on fhis conorming
to o.her requisiiitions on said fact.
J. Ik Varnum,
liter of tSte House of Representatives.
>PS
George Clinton, *
Viçe-Preakîent of the United States, and
lb evident of the Senate.
February
, 1810
pp roved.
JAMES MADtSON.
'*•**73* t TryTxyr n' nsj nv ssvmm
■Ciir fiSajrtr
IFilmhigton, February 14 , 1810 .
;
Legislature of Delaware.
NUMBER II.
Bt f re we proceed ta an investigation of
the- sulijert slotted for the present number,
it ma-, be proper to premise, that whatever
strictures the proceedings of this body may
jtislilY, the allusion is made to the major
part, and not to every individual member.
In générai, the republican minority have
he-u uniform, in their principles, and cun
rjacu Thi*. contrast which they have thus
exhibited to the opposite party, renders the
censure of the out, au implied approbation
of the other. But should '
improper
Aires
be discovered in either,
. no party conside
rations shall lead us to unjustifiable deckt
maticn, nor shall they withhold a suitable
reprehension. '
'1 he task is too delicate for us to affirm
that the intentions of the
majority were op
posed to their duty and their oaths, hows
ver strbngly their measures might tend to
prove the charge.
Without deviating from the respect and
deference due to the abilities, the station
and the conduct of legislators, we shall ever
express our sentiments with candor and
with freedom. This is a duty we owe to the
public, to our principles, and to the cause of
truth. We shall proceed by an elucidation
of facts, rather than by indecent ridicule or):
inveterate denunciation. ;>*'
Such is the condition of society, that pot
unfrequently men arc found knaves without)
art, and demagogues without de.cpjvtng.
Deception is ever the object, but not àlwtiys
the appendage of hypocrisy. The tr.ajbritv
our legislature, perhaps, may exemplify
in
the truth of these remarks.
Elevated above the power of prejudice or
the force of malice, every man entrusted
with public confidence, upon the eternal
principles of justice should test the pretend
ed purity of his motives and rectitude of his
conduct. The hopes of those who rely upon
the success of artifice have, to say the least,
a fearful foundation.
This
may seem a digression, bat it is a
necessary one. A measure, unequal and de
structive in its nature, unjü3t and opposite
in its tendency, awaits an exposition. By
the majority of the last legislature a law
was passed tu accomplish the most extraor
dinary purposes bv the worst of frauds, an
unequal taxation. This law was passed
with the constitution before them, and their
oaths for its support recorded in the tablet
of their memory,
By the constitution, tax
anon must lie apportioned to representation.
By the state of the polls, at a time when the
utmost efforts were made,New-Castle coun
ty bears a proportion to Sussex of about 7
to 8, or 2800 in the former to 3J200 in the
latter. By the law in question, New-Castle
county is assessed 1200 dollars more than
Sussex, being a proportion of 30 to 40.—
I hus is paid for the support of government
quarter less by Sussex, with 3200 vote*,
one
than by New-Castle with only 2800. In o
'her words countv, with wo
less voters than Sussex pays annually 1200
dollars mûre, towards defraying the expell
ees of
government. The members from
Sussex must certainly have formed favora
ble impressions of republican generosity'.
1 hey pay something like à compliment to
gratitude, and throw off that disgusting
our
modesty which, might tend to obscure their
wisdom. Not without duly appreciating
their kindnesses, New-Castle county may
boast of liberally rewarding Sussex repre
sentation. Hut the subject is too serious for
levity. Wo/iave pxhibited the testimony' of
facts, redutjed to arithmetical accuracy. It
remains wi|h life federal majority to recon
cile this measure to their constituents or to
their consdeiices- It belies their former
profession^—it will baffle their sophistry.
Federal)!
ts of New-Castle county 1 Can
you submit!
to such shameful imposition ?
:
Will you countenance men, even your po
litical brethren, who will rob you of your
rights, sacrifice your interests to enhance
their own, and trample in the dust the con.
stitution of our state, that sacred charter of
our rights, that foundation of law, that on
ly barrier to legislative usurpation? It is
impossible ! Let not the clouds of party
blind your reason. The subject is before
you—examine and satisfy yourselves.
We have barely alluded to a subject,
which, taken in connection, with other mea
sures, requires a far more thorough investi
gation. It Î3 a painful undertaking—we
sincerely regret the necessity- of its perfor
mance. Justice to the public requires that
a game of duplicity and chicanery, rarely
paralleled in the annals of court intrigues,
should be exposed—the secret arts unfold
ed. This will be the subject of future pa
pers. The aid of those who may have wit
nessed their manoeuvres and cabaiistical
proceedings, is respectfully solicited,
To
the majority of the legislature it would be
indeed alarming—and the alarm would be
heightened by a consciousness of guilt.—
We are not invading the sanctuary of pri
vate reputation—it is justice to the public
Which requires that their deep laid schemes
—their midnight machinations should be
exposed to the light of day. We wish them
peace, nod sincerely hope that the thunders
of public indignation may not disturb their
repose.
These are not electioneering phantoms or
imaginary Charges. 'They are addressed to
the sober stnse, and not to the party feel
ings of the public- It is a time when the
public pulse is nol agitatcJ by the ravings
of Jema^
J'hJfcps l —ike passions a-e cooi.
Our assertion» are rested
upon the firm
foundatia
f truth ; a foundation
as tnva
liable as ;
fairs of nature, as ancient and
,l„
as time itself.
, This is our apo
us iiu-a
b
aiu! our nnly apology, for a public cen
sure of the public measures and private
views of public men. Should they deem
an
explanation of their motives, or a justifica
tion of their conduct necessary■*— let it be in
candid terms, and our columns arc at their
services
T.he United States Judiciary.
Among the relics of the late Thomas
Paine, is the project of an amendment to
the constitution of the United States,
re
speciing the judiciary. He proposes—
" 'lhat after the words as they now stand
jp the article, 'the judges of the supreme
and inferior courts shall hold their offices
daring good behaviour' to add but for reas
onable cause,- xvhich shall not be sufficient
ground for impeachment , the president may
remove any of them , on the address of a
wa
joriiij of both houses of congccss
The above deserves serious considerati
on. Su;h is the force of prejudice, that the
grossest misconduct will receive the coun
tenance and almost the approbation of a fa
vorite partizan. By the constitution, with
the approbation of one-third of the senate,
the judiciary of the U. S. are above control,
The most odious practices,Or criminal com
binations, may characterize a judge, and,
with that exception, there is legitimate au
thority to take cognizance of their crimes.
The prevailing'Tpii'it of party deprives men
oi candor, and. in the eyes of sanguinary
partizans, transforms guilt into innocence.
At the time of judge Chase's impeachment,
to learn a mail's opinion of the accusations
ailedged against him, we need only hav
•e en
qutred his sentiments. The subject,
we re*
peat, deserves consideration,
We have
barely premised the outlines, and shall leave
them to the reflection of our readers.
STATE OF NE W YORK.
I he iegisLtuie of New-Yoik convened at Al
bany tiie 30th ult. Cell. North was elected
rpeaker, and Mr. Van Ingen clerk, ofthe assem
bly. A council of appointment was elected,
consisting of Israel Carl, Roheit Williams, Dan
iel Paris, and Amos Hall. Of these, a majority
aie federalists. They have commenced tlicir ca
reer, by displacing firm am! d'slingoUlied patri
ots, to invent their political brethren with t'T
e
mnl nm..1 j of office and d>-l- r **'i.
The
message »r, ne governor (M. I otupkins)
is before us. Of the internal concerns of that
stair, he observes, '• it affords me great satisfac
tion to inform you that more tbau usual profici
ency has been made in extending and improving
agriculture and manufactures. Theltbeial pat
ronage which the legislature lias been pleased to
extend to domestic manufactures, by loans and
bounties, has been attended with the most salu
tary effect. The enlightened policy of a few in
dividuals iias also introduced a breed of sheep
which cs3entiailv promotes the fabrication of
cloths of a superior quality." He also submits
to their decision," whether, by farther encour
agements, an additional stimuious may not be
created wliicii will enable our citizens to con
vince foreign nations that we arc not dejiendent
on them for manufactures."
Governor Tompkins also recommends the at
tention of the legislature to the means of instruc
tionfor the rising generation, and states tint tile
fund appropriated for common schools already
produces an income of about g 2C.ÜÖ0 annually,
and is daily becoming more p-o tuctivc.
The next election in New York will take place
it) April, at which time a governor is chosen.—
The candidates arc already before the public—
Gov. Tompkins is supported by the republicans,
and'Jonas Platt, of Oneida county, by the, fed
eralists. mrit-i /.
VIRGINIA.
From a statement of the revenue tjf .ofthe
state of Virginia, for the year ISO;}, itappears,
that the property within that state, a fur deduct
ing allowances for commissions, insolents, er
rors, &c. subject to taxation, amouiti to S 261,
The expenditures, during Me same pe
821 53.
riod, charged on the revenue, wet) S 33d,288
72.
Through the medium uf the Iichmnnd En
quirer, we have obtained the reprit of the com
mittee appointed by the Virgind legislature to
enquire into the state of the mat^factory of arms
in that state, Src. By this rejJft it appears that
within the last year have Nen manufactured,
musksts with bayonets 3 I'7—cavalry swords
without scabbards 540—ardlery swords with
out scabbards 533—pisto) 2(iO; Oil the 30th
November there remaihet/ou hand unwrought
materials and compotetNparli ot arms, to the
value ot 8 29,PI t. Ea-h musket with a bayo
net costs the state 12 fl/llars 28 cents.
«=
'Fur the D.laoare Gaze
Mr. Jones, / - ' •
I have occasiptaliy visited, and VtsltcrF With''
great pleasure, tbe Unidn Hérmôiiio Rdcii-fy "fff
Wilmington,-of wbtcb you itbticed- -rite ÛtctidiT
of officers in yourla.it GaZettèti - ' - '
By a perusal oflbat list-of officers, I-'Observe
the names of gentlemen of every religious denom
ination, where tiered music is admitted as a pait
of divine worship—and what gives an additional
honor to the society, men of different political
sentiments, ant/of the most exemplary charaet
ers- Surely à îSdhfty of this -utufè', governed hf
men of such Standing, conducted with such de
cency, and at the same time on terms so
very
easy, cannot fail of being
highly useful in advar.
eins the knowledge of church music.
What cau be moredelightful—what can fill
tlie heart with sensations more pleasing,
more
refined, and mare sublime than to hear near 200
' mortal tongues' engaged in learning ' to channe
hymns of praise to the Great Jehovah !' The
voice was certainly not formed for mere conyer
sation|w'lien it can he thus delightfully and reli
giously exercised !
In casting ir,v eye* around the room of their
meeting 1 observed die aged, die middle aged,
id the youth, all engaged in this beautiful arid
laudable exercise—-the headt^of families quitting,
for.i?a few hours, their worldly pursuits, the
youths their diversions,and thus joining the vocal
throng.
By becoming acquainted tvirh the regulations
of the society, 1 wSu much delighted to find that
it was not 'considered as a mere quarterly singing
school, but a sacred musical society, to continue
tor years, should an adequate number (who no
dopbt;will) give it their attention and suppojf.
ft is true, the accounts of the society are settled
every quarter-—nor'could it well be otherwise_
but with the closing of the accounts, the *
cutty
does riot close. This,
ndouhtedly, is a grand
plan
as it will serve .Wa permnment school For
the acquirement of Psalmody, founded on the
liest possible basis, it is well known that
■ . . great
Lsuty has of late been introduced in many sing
ing schools—too many ofthe members thereof,
considering those schools as mere places of tri
fling diversion, thereby defeating the very inten
tions of them. But the society of which We
are
treating, has every opportunity of detecting and
eradicating such mischievous conduct. °
I confess myself so much delighted with ite
that Were 1 only to continue one month in the bo
rough, or within a reasonable distance thereof. I
would cheerfully pay the quarterly expence (50
cents) for that one month's privilege of visiting
the society.
J.
Spring-Water Company.
A MEETING ofthe Stockholders of,the
Wilmington Spring-Water Cdmpany, will
be held at the Town-Hall, on 71h dav the
2.(lit of tiie prelent month, at 3 o'clock P. M.
\\ lien w-11 be elected 12 directors and a trek
Hirer for the er.fui
rig year.
Ziba Rems, Sec'ry.
dJ mo. 10, 18!o.
tm
TO BE SOLD,
At Private Sale *
A ND may be entered on the 25th of March
next,all that TAVEfiN HOUSE & f OT*
and iVIAkSH thev canto 'belonging,
Vf I . A :
situated in the borough of Wilir.irigtôri, at thé
Lower Ferry on Christiana Creek, containing;
about. 13J acres of Land and Marsh in a good
state. The Tavern House is accommodated
with good Stable, Sheds, a good Well St Pump,
See. and has been long kept « a public house#
and well accustomed being in 1 good stand for
business. The terms may be knox n by apply-»
ing to the subscriber on the premises.
Wm, Clark.
January 31, 1S10.
u
To be Rented
FOR A. TERM OF YSgfltS,
A CONVENIENT twe^-story otone House,
H with a Lot suitable for a Garden, situate In
the borough ot WjlminAon, and now occupied
by Motet Thompson, 1 — for further particulars apt*
piy to - - ' - -
Albanus C; Logati. "
Jan. Ö0, 1310.
fit r
Lo be Let ,
ND pofsefston given on the25th ofMarele
ZAnext ensuing, a larjjT and commodious
two story brick house, fituated on the east
side of King-street, at present occupied Uÿ
Mrs. Oldham, together with à stable and car
riage-house. for terms apply to
-,
WILLIAM RANKIN,
Wilmington December 30th, I RO.q.—tf.
Milita ry School.
The Members of the company of WVmingiott
Tight- hfantry Rhus, arc requested to attend!
at the house Of Eli I-a/ubourn, inkeeper, every
Saturday evening, .un.lil the 25th of March eri
Siting, fot cite purpose cl improving themselves
in military tactics. Persons wishing to be
come
members of said company are also invited to
attend—but none else will be admitted.
By order, •
Joseph Jones, Sec'ry,
Wilmington,Ja n. 27, 1810.-—fir.
To be Sold or Leased#
VALUABLE Grazing Farm, at MY
A
tmngton in the state of Delaware,
now :u
tenure of JOHN FILE:
It consists of sixty a
cres of excellent land, with tx Brick House there
in the town of Wilmington ; the whole situ •
on,
ift the most htmt-cHit-Vit manner for the autjpiy
ate
of tiie WLnrnAiJti'tfiii'lfct.
. * l-he rrntrshoHfiTÄLitiS ninety acres of the most
choice p'ait(gïfit(Mfe7r f y 1 ïslahd marsh, including
tire Lisa'. Yiîsutf.'î a-T-hc ifiarsh will be sold sepa
rate ftom the upland.'- If not 60on disposed of,
the whole will be leased for a term of years ; the
premises vfiU ba shewn by .lohn File the present
tenant, and terms made known by- application
to
JOSHUA & THOMAS GILPIN,
January 20, !8;Ui
Philadelphia
tl
