jrtOK THE NAtlONAt-lNTELMGENeKtl.
The. NEW WORLD.
No. 111.
An enquiry into-the NatxonaI Charac
PeoFU or the United
TEH or
THE
Stai'es or America.
We have seen that the illustrious discoverers
T>f America were enterprizing natives of dis
tinguished Italy —of Genoa, of Tuscany and
of Venice.
The sentiments on the northern section of
this continent, which were within the limits of
Cur present dominions, or may be considered
as near enough tb have influenced our charac
ter, were made under the auspices of various
European powers, and were originally compo-.
«ed of their citizens and subject-, in the course
of our growth through infancy and youth to
our present manhood, migration to America
has takeh'a much'wider range. We have
seen, xve'have felt the influence of the minds,
the hcUrts, thé maimers, and the habits ef man
ftom every civilized society, and every church.
Let tls'calmly'revise <he facts, which relate Jo
our settlements, and to our constant accessions
ol people front abroad !
The establishment of stations for settlement
and commerce was commenced by the French
in the provinces of Canada and Acadig or Nova
Scolja in 1 bOS "and 1611. The discovery of
Louisiana in 15*41, was folloxved at later peri
ods by considerable F retich migrations. 'These
two colonial establishments of I-'ranee became
incorporated with the American states of our
late empire by the treaty of Paris in 17f>3. Ma
ny oClhe A cad' ans were transferred by England
ihm our provinces. At the peace of 1788,
Canadians came into our country as permentel
citizens, and Americans passed over sett nato
ih'tlie two Canadas. The French revocation of
their edict of Nantes had scattered the follow
ers of Calvin , under the name of Hugunots
over the face of our country. The names ' of
Jay, Boudinot ami Laureos, clearly descended
from that stock* will be found on the short list
of our Presidents of Congress in the first ten
years ofour-revolutionary history. The names
of Jay, Gailiard, Bovdoin, de Lancey'and
ethers, are on the list of the governors in the
firnes of the provinces and of the common
wealths. They appear olten as members of
our legislatures, and as ministers and officers
**■ vinous rcligioas societies and guardians of
our seminaries of learning in many of the
states. As th* French have always rejected
the preference of the eldest son in the disposi
tion of intestate property, as these F'rench
sought this country to preserve the rights of crin
sc'cncr. as they introduced a number of valua
ble books, and their modes of business, educa
tion and worship,-it cannot be supposed that
the. have not contributed to form the actual
cl.it' ar t r of the existing American people. In
tin i •-■•••riiou of all th'tigs, which interfere with
th»- rights of conscience, in the rejection of the
Fig«-» <>f primogeniture, and in the rejection
commerce in the human species, the de
o -
nt:! of the French in united America
SC
to*''* 'n.'.r.'u it«<] the gcncial characteristics of
out
U'fnn.
' Swedish an ! Danish blended settlements
w ■•-..! our present dominions
of
ere early and
coiisi'letvble for that time.
They purchased
ndians all the country, bn botn sides of
oft
of
the Delaware, calling it the New Suede.land
S '.7
■iun. and made settlcmcriis on both sho
that river and of its extensive bay. They
01
sca'*«t;cd themselves on tile various' streams
ed
wfitcli the Delaware receives.
The states of
New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware, con
. tain a number of Swedish churches, with mill
isters derived from that of episcopacy, at this
<!->•• They arc very"similar to the other mem
bers ol the Lutheran church i» these states.
The ground plat of the city anJ Iibertiesof Phi
ladelphta were compromised) in part,-with the
Swedish settlers by William Penn. The an
•• cient town of Nevr-Castle on Delaware was
founded by the Swedes more than fifty years
of Hen "7 lva " la ' a ' , ' t l was th«n
s:
quevn of Sweden. The settlements ofthat na
tu n on the waters of the Delaware, at the time
that the Dutch acquired them, were greater
than tiny other colony of the Swedish nation.
Except indeed the purchased island of Saint
Bartholomew, it is not remembered that they
have had any other permanent colonial estab
lishment. The civil law which prevailed in
Sweden and the principles of which were high
ly influential in Denmark, did not favor the
idea of au y right from primogeniture, the pre
, vailing spirit of the American law of descents.
Having no sugar colwiics at the time of their
**" settlements adjacent to the Delaware, the
Swedes and Danes had little information
or
practice in the slave trade, and have contribu
ted probably to facilitate the
early and known
opposition lo that trade, which arose in ihe
middle states.
'Th
; enterprize, the wealth, the freedom,
the
b;iety and the religion of the Dutch
ren
der their e ,'v and prosperous settlements in
tins part ot America particularly worthy of
consideration 1 heir forts and marts extended
from the .western bank ol Connecticut river,
and tlie city of Albany to Hoar kiln or Lewis
town, iivar the southern cape of De aware bay.
I hr y had acquired the town of New-Cnstle or
Stockholm, from the
■\ Swedes, and called .h
New Amsterdam.
1 hejr settlers had extended
w York, Connecticut, east New Jersey,
IT
• aw Jersey, Delaware, the south western
west
ewajej cfPtamsjWiaU, slid the aasMu shore'
of Maryland, wher, their »hole possessions-in
middle states, called the New Netherlands,
our
conquered by Great Britain in 171)4, and
were
11 ... !
Were divided under charters to the American
provinces of Connecticut, New-York, New
Jcrsey,' Pennsylvania and the lower-territory' of
York and Penn, known at present as the De
laware state. The influence of the Dutch, af
ter this conquest, continued to be such that
there were seven governors of New-York of
that s'oek, and one of N«?w-Jersey. There are
at this time not less than eighty Dutch Calvanis
tic churches in the Doited Slates. They are
as zealous friends of religious liberty as the
rest of the Americans, and the New-York and
New-Jcrse.y legislatures in which they are most
numerous, corrected the English law of de
scents, as soon as the separation from Great
Britain enabled them to give to the laws the
proper spirit of our nation.
The German people, having little concern
in navigation, there has not been, at any time,
a commencement of a separate German colony
within Our present dominions. But great num
bers of the natives of the protestant and ca
tholia states of that immense confederated em
pire have migrated hither in search of liberty oj
conscience, and establishment in life. \Y illiam
rly visit to the continent of
Penn made
eu
Europe, with a view to inform the German
people of his new and liberal cstablisment.
The agitations of Europe in consequence of the
struggles of the followers of John Hus ,, Lu
ther, Calvin, Menno and other* of less note
in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, and
of the counter exertions of the church of Rome
and its powerful supporters, rendered even the
wilds of America more lovely than the most
cultivated scenes of persecuting Europe. In
regatd to the prospects of a comfortable estab
lishment, fair accounts of this country seemed
to render it a second land of nromisc. The vast
number of German emigrants which have re
sorted to our shores in a term of more than one
hundred and twenty years, has exhibited the
persons, the language, the habits, the churches,
and some of the spirit of the laws of that great
and ancient empire. It is not ascertained xvhe
ther the wise and excellent founder of Penn
sylvania derived from his own wisdom and vir
tue his celebrated modification of the law ot
descents, or whether his respect for the law
of Moses or bis visit to Germany, where be
found the great opposition between the English
la'tv and the Justinian system in that respect,
occasioned him to adopt the idea. Certain it
is that in this respect, as well as in their pur
suit of religious liberty, the migrators from
Germany must have attached themselves to
these two objects, which are so conspicuous
and influential in our national character.
r»e
Germans, like the Swedes, had no participation
in sugar colonies, were consequently fiee from
interest and practice in the slave trade, and
were ready to co-operate in its decided arresta
tion. From this stock, we have had an illus
trious President of our Philosophical Society,
eminent professors in tha medical department
or one of our Universities, ministers of nearly
two hundred churches of the Lutherans, Cal
vinists, Raman C*'holies, Mennonists, Mora
vians, Ttinkers, and soin» other religious so
cieties. A governor and a vice-president of a
state, many generals of the militia, speakers
of the-national and state legislatures, and ot her
members have also been drawn from the natives
of Germany or their numerous descendants.
of
The theology, the language, the arts, the
"manufactures and the typography of the Ger
mans are very conspicuous and widely extend
ed in the United States of America.
COLUMBIAN US.
l
From the BOSTON CHRONICLE.
Our cotivrnience must yield, to Britain*« rig/tt to
exist S*— See the Repertory of the Gth inst.
The English, in all their impositions up.
-on America, whether it relates to tile
at
tackihgof our vessels and murdering their
crews, or to the destruction of our com
merce, have invariably found encourage
hä, Sr ctn r federal tdi -
h U d StatC *' As
soon as tney
have committed an outrage, they have on
ly to refer to particular newspapers printed
in the United States, not onlv for an entire
justification, hut for proof that they
were
entitled to our gratitude for not proceeding
to greater extremities i It seems that these
men have been informed by their liritish
Correspondents , that England will shortly
issue a new edition of the Orders in Court,
cil, corrected and improved , by' their au*
thars, with great additions, alterations, & 1 .
In other words, that the Orders in Couuctl,
annihilating the commerce of the U. States,
are shortly to be followed by others, For the
indiscriminate seizure and plunder of A
merican property wherever they take it_
No sooner do these receive this inféinva
tion, thau they immediately commence the
degrading task of defending it, and of en
deavoring to reconcile the merchants of the
U. States to the loss of their properly.—
of
1 hey advance, in support of their doctrine,
the following unprecedented and inadmissi
ble position.
" Self preservation, with nations as with indi
or
viduals, takes precedence of every other print i
.h
pie of. natura I law. (t will justify any thing that
becomes necessary to that object. "A nation s
rights raise as her danger increases,
If from the
unproductiveness Or the devastations of
an ene
»>, , V.Sr. ; -< , :.m:1ir.emo -Inr <«*»!•« .<*: »< i J.
plying myself, I lave a tight to demand what is
n
necessary, of him who posfesses.it. II he will
accept any thing .1 can »pare m exchange, it is
! we il. If he w.ill not, I »tn ju-nhed in u*mg sû
peiior force, if I possess it, it) obtain relief. Id'»
convenience ptust. yield to my right to (list. ific
law of nature goes one step fuither. In the last
extremity before 1 perish. 1 have a right to use
my force—nid if resisted, to destroy him who
withholds from me what is »essessaiy to my
ex«
istencc." -,
Here G. Britain is informed l*y a publi
cation in one of otir most populous seaports,
that she has a tight to " demand what she
wants of us who possess it." 1 hat when
she meet* our vessels on the high seas, if
thev refuse to tasign themselves into her
hands quietly, she has a " right to use her
if
superior force té compel it"—And that "
they resist, she has a right to destroy them
—and will ht justified in doing it." II the
writer means thar Ci. Britain wtllbe justified
in this conduct by any law cither of nations
or of nature, it is very much doubted : nor
shall we be inclined to believe it, until he
But. if he wishes
produces his Authority,
to inform us that he intends to justify it, it
will be nuthing uncommon or unexpected.
No doubt that the men who have heretofore"
justified the murder of our citizens, who
have justified the impressment of seamen
and the Orders in Council, will nuw justi
fy *ûd encourage the English in '.heir con
templated plan of deprecation on American
property.
VVc condemn the Algerines and Tripo
litans as pirates, but if this doctrine is cor
rect, could they not plead necessity as an
excuse for their depredatory conduct, as
well as the English ? Mis Algerine Excel
lency might say, that from the depredations
of his enemies, his funds were greatly redu
ced, and he was therefore compelled to
seize our property to supply himself. If
the state of Tunis should be threatened bv
its foes, the Tunesiaus might declare, while
pouring there broadsides into the American
ships, that our *• convenience must yitkl to
their right to exist.
•>
What say the merchants lo this doctrine?
Will they subscribe to its orthwd ,xv ? Is it
cousooent to their idea»; of justice, that when
they- send out a vessel, the British, or anv
other nation, have a right to take pos
session of her for their own use, and that
if she resist, they have a right to fire upon
and destroy her ? Will they continue to en
courage a paper which advances tenets so
repugnant to every principle-of justice, and
so hostile to their iuterests and the inter
ests of the country ?
From the Same.
AMERICANS !—fhzare of IVulvcs in S/icCfi's
clothing.
The last loyal Repertory says, that " from
unimpeachable sources of information, it is well
known that the Canadian people are perfectly
satisfied with (lie government under which they
live ; that they know too well how to appreci
ate the blessings ol the Jlritish ConstilH'ion, to
be willing to barter their advantages aud happi
ness for any other."
W hetiier such things as these arc written in
Nr-c-England, Old-England,
or bis Majesty's
adjacent provi
it makes
no difference.
c*
l he intention of the author is evident,
But if
he wishes to make the people <d the United
States believe that the British Constitution is
preferable to the .i/m nenn , he may give up his
enterprize in the beginning. The American
people too well appreciate tiie blessings which
result iron) their flee, Republican Constitu
tioi.s, to indulge for a moment the most distant
i-ka of exchanging them for Monarchical
or
Aiistorrntical Systems.
\Y c recollect the remarks of the Repertory,
upon the Oration of Y\ m. Ch. White, Flsq
The Constitution of England was then held up,
to the people, doubtless with the view of ex
citing their approbation,
\\ e were also fuvnr
ed with the promise of some extracts from this
inimitable. Constitution—but which, however,
have not yet appeared, if the Repertot-y
ex*
pects to convert lilt partiality of the people of
these States for republicanism, into a venera
tion for monarchical institutions, it has under
taken a Herculean task, in which it will never
succeed.
I'.ven with All the uid of its Canadian
Correspondent St (Ofiiccrs of the Crown, miques
tiûiiâbly,) it will tail infinitely short of the
con
tempiated object.
The " '
Corntnunicafiun ** signed" VenAx,**in
the last Repertory, is an additional proof of the
* The Repertory, in the introduction to this
Communication, unblushingly confesses that it
was received from a Correspondent in Ca ada !
The people of the United States must feel them
selves under infinite obligations to his Majesty's
officers in the neighbouring provinces for tluir
great kindness in sending political
çotitniu/aca
lions to their agents in the United States for
puhlicatidn! In this communication, the Con
stitutionalists of die United States, the filends
of their country and its government, are stig
matized as " demoralising tiemagoguesf a de
ceptive epithet, which they leant from their
Junto friends in this quarter. The British Con
s
nti'inion is Held tfp as the model of all that i*
perfect in ihc science of
government—and
much abuse is lavished upon the Chromecfe.
claw tunt-e* '»■■!' i'il'/'-i
•I '•
i-nuv c.
, am', the. _%*/•»/•> «rtf ujjinrs ol 1
■it,
n a-e
Ciingii/i. It ifiv'i «tiohgly" to prove, .that tij
Snrtbern C suffit ta.cy, (compiled of I'.nplid,
agents in- Cwt*dh,. and AhV.lo-Americans in the .
Tluir
Northern States,,) is still tn existence,
cloven foot was.disco'.ei able, wl.ct they-took
advantage of the. embargo, atld threatened
■
(what their weakness jdonejirevcntt'd thttn from
) a separation of the states.
executing
■
From the BO .i-N PATRIOT.
THE BAIT.
fif we are to judge from outwärd appearan
ces, the " Copenhagen .faclson xvill be-as ci
vil and pacific as a fish-hook! We do,not pre
tend to judge whether the following is extra
ordinary, or the ordinary recommendation of
diplomatic characters. If, however, this kind .
of court plainer do not prove that Mr; Jackson,
or his master thought him"a subject of suspi
cion, it "ought perhaps to induce-us to supect
that either or both wish to |dar upon opr ere- j
diility. It is sufficient that Mr. J's business
lies between himself and our executive, in
whom we have full confidence, and that such
are the impressions on the public mind, that
be xvill find it too late lo open n separate négo
ciation with the peopie of America in any sec
tion of the union—even should his majesty's
papers in New-Englan,d become again the en
gines of correspondence for the ministers and *- :
their minions.]
their minions.]
EXTRACT OF A LETTER
From a distinguished character of the Society -
of Quakers, in England, to his frielid in Cam
bridge, (Mass.) dated July. 5th, I 8 O 9 .
" Although some years have elapsed since •
our last meeting at my house in Cla/i/iam, yet
in hope tbit those agreeable da'ys of old are not
entirely forgotten, I beg leave lo introduce my
resrieéiable friend Francis J. Jackson, re
cently chosen to be our Minister Extraordinary
to the Unit'd Slates, as a gentleman of high
character and talents, with whose family 1 have
been long acquainted. Believing as ( do, that 7
he comes to you in the " spirit of /:<■««■, '' and so
confident in the hopes of applying an healing )
plaister to the recent wound, that lie takes over.,
hi* wife and children ; I cannot hut wish wjjIJ,
to such a mission of peace. It has ever,beep
my fervent wish to witness a perfect harmony,
between the two nations, founded on a rccipro-'
city of interests. I have therefoie given him
letters to my friend Gore, and to such others
whom Tmost esteem m Nev-Yurk and Phi!a*
ddphi a .* ;
"Ere this, the public prints have probably
informed you of the decease of my beloved and
venerable uucle David Barclay, alossirreh
parable to his family and numerous connections
to whom he afforded the highest example .of
human perfection He closed Itis long, honor
able and useful life in as sudden and easy a man
ner as could be w ished ; his illness not lasting
an hour, when hr ceased to live without sigh pt
struggle. His plans were congenial with those
of (by invaluable relation Dr. F otliergill, espe
cially in that of living rather than dying rieh,
and in being lira own executor." • -
['lx it probable that a man, like the vxtriter.ef
the above, distinguished not merely for opulence,
but weighty, and worthy, and veneraltd in point
of character, would have spoken tlvus ol u CV
penhagen Jackson," il he did not know him to
be » man whom a Quaker of the tir»t tank
Ccniincl.]
would not fear to recommend.
From the Democratic Press.
The " distinguished charactei" who il Hie
author of the above letter, is Mr. David Harcfatjt
a brewer in London. Onc ol" the most devoted
tools of William Pitt when living, and now
equally devoted to Canning and Dnnilas, He
lms some influence and-it was on account pf that
influence that Pitt, Dundas and Co. used toVuit
his brewery, and there eat btefiteakes and drink
port wine. The above letter is oniy one copy of
a circular which was sent to a great number of
persons in the cities of the United States. From
what we have heard on the occasion it is proba
ble that no minister ever brought from the coun
try which sent him, so many letters of introduc
tion to the citizens of the country, to whose gov
ernment he was accredited as Mr. Jackson. So
great has been the number, that Mr. Jacksoo
despaired of ever delivering them in per»oq i and
sent them on to the persons,to whom they, were
directed by his servant.- —We congratulate gover
nor Gour on this new link in the chain which
binds him to the mother country, and stimulates
him to the unfurling the' banners of the Ameri
Republic against those of imperial F rance.
can
d)e dSasette*
Wilmington , October ! 8, 1809.
MARRIED,
Gn Thursday evening last, by the Rev. Dr.
Read, Mr. Henry VTniNg, Printer, to Mb*
Rebecca Lyle, all of this town.
Same evening, by the Rev. Dr. Read. Mr
George Hantno, to Mis. Kesiah ARciiUi
both of this place.
A late London paper gives a detailcf*'
statement of the French-naval force, iV<' m
which it appears that France has yet, not
withstanding its diminution by capture, «
formidable navy, consisting of six vcsm ■
of-120 guns, sixty one sail of the line, a'-' u
forty eight frigates ; at.di
mf
is supposed to be under rated.
