>y Tt.i;h feebh. sophism the new envoy at
ré'.;. t»ts to evade the firce of this fact.
!&terfiner the reader to the correct élucidait*
o-s which are given by Mr. Smith, in his letter
f the 19th of October, on the several interest.
o
the United States
hiv topics in dispute betwe
en
aau Great Britain, and particularly to the con
ciliatory offer of the president to comprehend
the orders in council in a general négociation,
the writer of this exposition proceeds to
the
letter oi Mr. Jackson to Mr. Smith of the 23d
This letter is remarkable, among
-of October,
other points, for the very unsatisfactory explan
ation it furnishes of the reasons lor disavowing
Mr. Erskine's arrangement. It was disavowed,
Mr. Jackron asserts, because his predecessor
had no authority to conclude it. 1 here is no
• reference to the equity and justice of the terms ;
no " t/rong and solid'reasons" in relation to the
rights of the United States. But, simply, the
disavowed, because the minister was
act w r as
This, certainly, is
unauthorised to conclude it.
It is one
a convenient, if not a .erul rxcuse.
which may at ail liir.Ca and under all circum
f'lOthiug more is neces
staneci be resorted to.
sary than to declare that a minuter has not com
prehended his instructions, and die most solemn
engagements aie at an end. But iliiti i» tititber
law nor good faith. Supposing that the viola
tion of instructions is good cause iur disavowing
an a f -ngement, the mere aaj/ing so is no com
petent and satisfactory explanation to the disup
ltis incumbent on the disavow
pointed party,
ill» party to shew that they have been violated ;
that is, the disappointing party sh mid prove the
fact of violation, Mr. Jackson b is not done
He refers to a printed dispatch of the 23d
this.
of January, and offers /m hare word tor all the
rest. Where arc the " several" letters of in
struction mentioned by Mr. Erskine? Why
not produce the o innol paper of the dispatch of
January 23d, that i«, th emumeript of it? IV by
111 an official proceeding, refer to a copy which
appeared in the newspapers? And where
is'the instruction relative to the Chesapeake ?
orders in tiia
Did Mr. Rrskhie exceed Iris
Mr. d.tckaon says he did;—
also ?
respect
no copy, (not
Jackson produces
but Mr.
printed ouc,) of tile iustrurtion on that
even a
D this what Vat,cl (an uutnoriry fui
head.
ly admitted by Mr. Jackson,)
woultl call a
s« strong and solid reason?" Mr. Jackson's mere
a : a rd, unsupported by corroborating vauchcis
or circumstances, cannot be received as evidence
in toe case; yet he offers no other ; and in this
view it is worthy of,notice, that Mr. Jackson
claims for himself that weight of credibility
which he denies to Mr. Smith and to the presi
id -requires th .t his solita t y declaration
dent.
virated by his tergiversations)
(a declaration
should he tiken til support and for lull proof of
r. fact, and at the same time more than insinuates
lint Mr. Smith's word, and the asseverations ot
t'.ie pr.-.i lent through Mr. Smith, are not enti
tled to belief.
The reader will edvervr, that Mr. Smith in
r of die nineteenth of Oct. says, " the
let;
hi.
that the disoatch from Mr. Cannin <
déclara Ion
23d of January is the
Erskine of th
to Mr
!;/ d.snatch by which the conditions were pre -
ribed to Mr. Erskine for the conclusion ot an
r.gcmer.t on the matter lo which it relates i
b
srra
now for thejf«< time made to this government.'!
Mr. Jackson had read this observation when hc
rote Ids reply of October 23d, from which the
-A
following is an extract :
" So far from the terms which he [Mr. Ers
kine] was actually induced to accept having been
contemplated in that instruction, he AimtetJ states
that the!) 'lucre niïrrrill'TïO h'j YOU [die secre
tary of state] in lieu of those origin illy propo
sed."
( To he continued.)
Message
From the Présider, t of the United States, trans
mitting extracts fror.» the correspondence of
Mr. Pinkney.
To the House of lit/tresenintio
Of 'ho
United
Slates.
,. B .eea'dy to the request expressed in the re.
A
solution of the 18'h inst. 1 jay before the House
extracts from the correspondence of the minister
plenipotentiary of the United States at London.
JAMES MADISON.
December I fi, 1 80p.
ijtief account of an official conversation between
Mr. Canning ami Mr. Pinkney, on the 18th
of January, 1809 , continued on the
1 cl
the same month.
[Transmitted by Mr- Pinknn/ to the Secretary of
SMc.l
I dined at Mr. Canning's with the cor/n dL
):lcma!i/ue, on the 1811 1 January. Before dinner
he came up to me, and entering into conversa
«
tion, adverted to the report which he said bad
reached him that the Amciicau ministers (here
acid in E'rance) were, about to lie recalled. 1
replied, that 1 was--not aware that sucii a step
bad been resolved upon. I!e then took me a
side, and observed that, according to i,
virw of
the ju-te pfoueed-ngs of congress, the resolutions
of rhe honsc rf revrese,.natives in committee of
the whole appeared to be calculated, if passed
rr.to a law, to remove the impediments to ar
rangement with the United States, on tire sub
jcr is of the orders in conn
and the Chesa
peuke, by taking
the dircriminat'on be
tiveer. Great Britain and France in the exclusion
of vessels of war f ont American port",
added that it was another favorable circumstance
that tlie non-importation system, which seemed
to be in contemplation, was to be applied equally
to both patties, instead of affecting as heretofore
Great Britain alone,
' proposed to Mr. Canning, that I should call
pu him in the cour e of a day nr two for the
what he
purpose of ft free communication upon
had suggested. To this be readily assented ;
and it whs selected that 1 should see him on the
Sunday following, (the 22.1) at 12 o'clock, at
Ins own house.
In the interview of the 22d, Mr. Canning's
impressions appeared to be in all re«[>ects the
same with those which he had mentioned on the
go
18th ; and I said every thing which I thought
it
consistent with candor and discretion to confirm
sent
him in his disposition to seek the re-establish-,
ment of good understanding with us, andispeV
daily to see in the expected act of congress (it
it should pass) an opening for reconciliation.
the
ft was of some impottance to turn their at
tention here, without loss of time, to the man
ner of any proceeding that might he in their
feet
contemplation. It see. -- d that the resolutions
of the house of representatives, if enacted into
a law, might render it proper, if not indisprnsi
of
ble, tha' the affair of the Chesapeake should be
settled at the same time with the business of the
orders and embargo, and this i understood to be
It followed
Mr. Canning's opinion ami wish,
ugld to be settieil at
that the whole matter oi
Washington, and as tnis. was moreover desirable
on various other grounds, I suggested that it
and
woulJ hc well (in case a special mission did not
i
meet their approbation) that the necessary pow
ers should be sent to Mr. Erskine.
In the course of the conversation, Mr. Can
ning proposed several questions relative to
our
late proposal ; the principal were the two fol
lowing :
1 . In rase thev should wish cither through
me or through Mr. F.iskiue, to meet us ttyon
the basis ol our late overture, what way'was
the itfeciuul operation of our embargo as to
after it should be broken off as to
France, X:
n, to bese.ured ? It was evident, lie
C,-. at Bur
saut, that if we should do no more than rciusc
clearances for the ports of France, See. or pro
mbit under penalties voyages to such ports, the
a t which my Liter nf the 2jd of August, and
my published instructions, proposed <o have iu
view*, would not be produced; fo r that vessels,
allbough cleared for British ports, might, when
once out, go to France instead of coming here ;
that this would in fact be so, ( whatever the pc,
nalties which the American laws might tie
nounce against off n lers) could not, he imagin.
ed, be doubted ; and he therefore presumed that
the government of the United States would not,
after it had itself declared a commerce with
France, &c. illegal, and it» cirizens who should
geinit delinquents, and after having given
entra
*o Gr
eat Britain by com pa t an interest in the
strict observation of the prohibition, complain
if the naval force of this country snould assist in
preventing sucii a commerce.
- . He asked whether there would be any ob
S' (,hc r T* al lte B,it " b or ' ,cr :
and the American embargo cotemporaneouR ?
He seemed to consider this as in.lispens.hle,
Nothing coulrl lie less admissible, he said, than
li ât Great Britain, after t-ar inding U.r orders,
should for any time, liowcier short, he left sub
ject to the embargo in common with France,
whose-decrees were subsisting, with a view to an
experiment upon France, or with any other
v.civ. I he United States could not upon their
own principles apply the embargo to this coun
b
oy one moment aber ns orders were remove,!,
W ' C oXn£ r Ze *°
) t 1 ance, and the pnweis toonetud with
her in system.
) ance, and the pnweis toonetud with
her in system.
I took occasion towards the close of our con
ent of
versait, in to mention the recent appqû^frn
admiral Berkeley to the Lisbon siauon. a'Mr.
Car,ning said, that whatever might be #cnV m
clination to consult the feelings oT the AigJ|ff
government on that subject, it was irnpossM
c 111
hie tor the admiralty to resist the claim of that
officer to he employed (no other objection ex
isting against him) after such a lapse of time
since his return from Halifax, without twinging
him to a court martial ; although I did not
un
demand him to say that this would he the
case.
He said that admiral Berkeley, in what hc had
done, had acted wholly without authority. I
did nnt propose to enter into any discussion up.
the subject, and therefore contented mysclt
on
with speaking ot the appointment as unfortu
nate.
lrr both of these conversations, Mr. Canning's
language and manner were in the highest degree
conciliatory. °
conciliatory. °
Extract of a letter from Wm. Pinkney, esq. mi
nister plenipotentiary of the United States in
London, to the Secretary of State, dated Lon
don, May 28, 1809 .
^ In the interview which took place, (on May
2 j) Mr. Canning said, that the British minister
had acted m his late negociation and engage
ments With you not only without authority' but
m uircct opposition lo the most precise instruc
tions ; that the instructions actually given to
him had been founded on his letters received
nere :n January, in which were set loith the par
tien, ars ot seveverul conversations that had trass
cd between him and Mr. Madison, Mr. Gallatin
and youiself, but especially the two last ; that
\\ i TP eare ' i f"' m fhese conversations, that, in
die opinion ot the persons with whom thev were
held, the government of the United Statcs'would
he willing that Great Rritarn
should consider
the measures then
, . . contemplated by conjzres?.
relative to non-Hitercowne, and the indiscr.min,
ate exclusion ot belligerent vessels from our
waters, as presenting an opening for the renewal
ot amicable discussions with this
lt u . country ; that
it »
Id be disposed, m the case of the Chew
prake, to receive as reparation, in additin
to the
prompt disavowal and recall of admiral Berke
l:y, the restoration of the seamen forcibly taken
out of that vessel ; that, on the subject of the
elfe?! : n v C ° Uncl1 ' « ™! ld no objection in
case drey were revoked as regarded the United
-.ates, to repeal the embargo and
non-iti ter
count h WP as to G real Bii'cnr-,
lo contit.tis
them as lo France and Holland am! such oilier
countries as should have in Vorce maritime edicts
similar to those of France, so long as those edicts
remained ; that it would allow it to l,e under*
stood that the British cr- zers (night cajiturc A
mcrican vessels attempting to violate the embar
go and non-intercourse laws so modified ; that
it would even agree to abandon during the pré
sent war all trade with enemies' colonies fiom
which we were excluded in peace ; that it was
prepared to regulate by treaty the commet niai
telaiionsof the two countries upon the basis of.
-
the most favored nation, or upon that of reel * 1
procal equality; and, in a won!, that it was ex
tremely desirous of re-establisii'n.g the most per
feet good understanding and the most fiiendly
connexion with Gre* Britain
Mr. Canning proceeded to info m me that m
consequence of these representations, some parts
of which he said I had myself confirmed in ttvo
conversations in January, he had framed and
transmitted to Mr. Erskinc two sets of instruc.
lions, dated the 23d of that month, hut not for
warded till some time afterwards, the first of
which related to the business of the Chesapeake,
and the second to the orders in council, and the
i mposed commercial arrangements. These in
smictions, together with the passages in Mr.
Erskinea letter, written I believe in December
List, which contained the ahovementtoned rc
presentations and some other details which I
ought not to repeat, Mr. Canning read to me.
Although Mr. Canning made me acquainted
with Mr, Erskinc's instrui.tions, he did not in
any degree ap|irize ine of the explanations,
transmitted by that milliner, of the grounds and
motives of his proceedings ; and I could not he
sure, from any thing which Mr. Canning had
stated to me, that 1 had been made to under
stand the exact nature and character of the
transaction. I believed, therefore, that it beho.
ved me to be particularly careful how I received
what Mr. Canning thought fit to disclose to me.
In looking back upon the past 1 discovered no
inducements to a less cautious course. 1 re
inembered that Mr. Canning had not told mein
our conversations in January (one of which oc
currerl the day before the date of his letter to Mr.
Ivskinc) that he intended to confide to him such
powers as lie must then have been in the ict of
preparing, or indeed any powers at all. That
in our conferences m April, after the arrival of
the Purafir, the same reserve was practiced._
That in the last of those conferences Mr. Can
ning admitted only (and that too upon being
pressed by me) that in the business of the Che
sapeake, he « had written to wr. Erskine, in
compliance with what he understood to he my
wish, that the settlement of that affair should be
transferier! to Washington," that even then the
u,n f * hcn hc had <!oni: 60 was not mentioned ;
and that au to the orders in council, I was suf.
feted to suppose that négociation in America
had nnt been authorised. It occurred tome,
moreover, that as it had already been decided
that Mr. Erskine was to be disavowed and as
that decision had been made public through the
bnatd of trade, 1 could not hope to prevent that
disavowal, and that with my impeifect know
ledge af facts, it might be worse than useless by
labored discussion to attempt it.
With these impressions 1 could do little more
manifC U my concern »'»«conciliator*«,
r.mgementsdielwecn the American aecuÉHry of
state amljfil njif?stv's accredited n&7r at
Wash4lng h, consequent-OpPprofes
sing(^^*n pursuance of ordei^ré^pViîs court,
ikely ,to have tlMMPMlwhu.h was
wen
lly to be expecteiVffhwtbem.
■Rndertonk, however, to declare with confi
ffcTTce, that the American government had met
Mr. Erskine's proposals in a just cr.tl friendly
spirit, and with a sincere desire that, while its
own honor and essential interests were fairly
ri' d n ® maintained, a iiberal re-pect shouk!
be shewn for those of Great Britain.
Extract of a letter from Mr. Pinkney to the -Se
cretary of State, dated London, June 6 ,h,
1809 .
Mr. Canning tells me that the conversations
detailed in Mr. Erskine's letters did not, as 1 had
supposed, suggest that the government of the U.
States would allow it to be understood that Bri
tish cruizers might stop American vessels at
tempting to violate the embargo and non-intcr
course continuing as to France &c. after they
should be withdrawn as to Great Butai, i._
They suggested that the United States would
side v'ith the power revoking its edicts against
the power persevering. This Mr. Cunning says
he considered (although hc did net so insist up.
on it in the recapitulation contained in his in
structions to Mr. Erskine)
j as comprehending
hat 1 thought he had represented the actual
w
suggestion to be, and what lie supposed I had
-said to him in an informal conversation, at his
iousu in iiton street, on the 22d of January,in
ltwTllIam n s e u? q r r,C9 ' or •
it will, l am sure, occur to you, as the fact is.
that the little which 1 might have thrown out
upon that occasion did not look to the admission
of Mr. Canning's object into any stipulation be
rween tire two countries, and that 1 viewed it
only as a consequence that might and won!,!,'if
France persisted in I er unjust decrees, grow out
of arrangements similar to those offered by us
in ugust as,
(as Mr. Can
rung Knew) to spc.ik officially upon that or tmv
other point connected with the orders in conn
cil, and being desirous that tl,is government
should propose négociation at Washington, as
well concerning the orders as the afi'.iu of the
Chesapeake, 1 avoided as much as possible vx
planatious upon details win,It would be best
managed at home by the department of state,
and endeavored to speak upon what Mr. Can
ning proposed lo me, in such aman
'cr as that
, : < :
;t ! ft,
WIUI
ue to the !
,r 1.
Path
r . , , . mnnr
rnm.-nt, 1 might contribute to |>ro -
my on :
duce an effort here towards f.ienflîy ddju«tnie m .
Extract of a letter from
Mr. Pinkney * n i Ir _
Smith, dated London, June t), 1809 .
Mr. ErrUine's instructions concerning the 0 -
dersin council having been laid before the he '*
IK<5
of commons, are now printed,
You will f m y
them in the newspaper inclosed.
It is not improbable that when Mr. Canni,
»8
read these instruct!
_ ... . s to me, 1 inferred front the
manner in which the three points sutcd'ih ilu,
5th, 6 lh and 7th paragraphs are introduced
and connected, that they were all consider
ec | as suggested by Mr. Erekine's •« r-nort
of his conversations with Mr. Madi
son,
Mr> Gallat|n aud Mr< g ; j
. , . , nun, wnettter f
, l ,. ^ an y oi |' er cause into the mis.
'' " e ® supposing that the third (as well as
»^c u rst and second) was so suggested, I
not sure, and it is nut very material,
Mr. Canning'» misconception of some
informal observations from me in January
last, has been in part mentioned in tny let.
ter of the 6 th inst. Hut the published in"
structions shew, what I had not coller.cl
from hcarîng lhem rcaf , th , und JJJ
i,., ° . \ umjcrsiooa
_ ' L . ' 1 la » » be American
government was iiselT aware that without
an enforcement by the naval power of G.
Britain, of the regulations of America with
respect to France, those regulations must
be altogether nugatory." It cannot be ne»
cessary to inform you that in this as in the
other particulars alluded to in mv last let
lcr . I have been misapprehended.
l nllr> u. to minflii lUnl. -, ,
j- , L r „, ? . strong and
' ,Jr *> e a S a,n3t tlle American
gov
ernment of* manifest partiality'to France/
introduced without any qualification
or ma
nagement of expression, into a paper which
Mr. Erskine was authorised to communi
cate in extenso to you, did not strike
me
when that paper was read to me by Mr.
Canning.
Fviract of» U.iar tit- d- i
' c r , . ^ rom ÄIr ; P ,nll, 'ey to
the Secretaty oi stale, dated June 23d,
J 809,
I had an interview yesterday with Mr.
Canning,
* n conversing upon the first of the
con.i
ditions, upon the obtaining of which Mr»
Erskine was to promise the repeal of the
British orders in council, and a special
mission,I collected from what was said by
J\T r Canning rhnt th* mn iinn u,.
l an( i f'm.W exempt,oo of Hoi
lancJ . lrom llle effect of our embargo and
n ° n ' ln,er course would not have been much
ol, J ec,ccl to by the British government, if
,be g overnmcn * of the United States had
been willing to concede the first condition,
subject to that exemption. Mr. Canning
observed that the expedient of an actual
blockade of Holland had occurred to them
as being capable of meeting that exemp.i.
on; but that Mr. Erskine had obtained no
id r doe cxnress or imnlied or In anv form
P ' rÜge ' P r Dr '? aii y lolm s
' hat WC W0U d cn ' orce our non-intercourse
system against France and her dependen
cies ; tha: our actual system would, if not
re-enacted or continued as to France, ter»
minate with the present session of con
g ress 5 that for aught that appeared to the
contrary in your correspondence with Mr.
Erskine, or in the president's proclamation»
the embargo and non-intercourse laws
might | je ,offered without breach of faith
t0 b expil . e , or ro ;^ t even be repea led im
mediately, notwithstanding the perseve
rance of France in her Berlin and other
edicts ; and that Mr. Erskine had in truth
secured nothing more, -as the consideration
recall of the orders in council, than
the renewal of American intercourse with
Great Britain.
Upon the sccoqcI of the conditions
mcn
tionedin Mr Erskine's
iu 3 tructions I
made several remarks.
I stated that u had
necessary conection with the principal
no
subject ; that it had lost its importance to
Great-Britam by the reduction nf almost all
the colonies of her enemies; that Batavia
was understood not to he affected by it }
that it could not apply-to Guadaloupe (the
only other uncanquered colony) since it
was admitted that we were not
excluded
from a trade with Guadaloupe in peace;
that I did not know what the government
of the United States would upon sufficient
is. - . . 1 . .
» nduc 1 em ': n « s c o" 3 ™» to do upon this point;
. th , at . U co . uld scarcely be expected to
B IVC the implied sanction which this con
it dll,on called upon it to give, to the rule ot
the war of 1755, without any equivalent
or
reciprocal stipulation whatsoever—Mr.
us Canning admitted that tile second couditi*
on lad no necessary connection with the
orders in council, and he intimated th»»
-„„„i y \ i > t i,„
' : ' vuulJ I'ave heen content to leave tiré
6 ub -l cct ol 11 10 fuUll ' e discussion m.d at
as rBn 8 ? meR »- He added that this condition
the " as lnser:, -'d in JMr. Erskine's instructions,
vx- because it hpd appeared from his own ré
best port of conversations, with official persons
at Washington that there would he no dff
ficulty i
agreeing to it.
Upon the third condition I said a very
that
