nose àlmost êntirely oft, done considerable
injury to her teeth and other parts of her
body. She received the blow obliquely,
otherwise the consequences had probably
been fatal. So violent was the explosion
that a piece of the heading which struck a
water barrel standing at some distance,
fractured several of its staves.
The cause of this explosion, which has
excited considerable speculation and
sur
prise, could be no other than inflamahlr air,
(hydrogenous gas) which had accumulated
in the cask. The properties of this gas
arc
well known to chymists. It smells like pu
trid fish, and cannot be very, safely breathed
even when largely diluted with vital air.—
Pilatre du Rozuer, a French chemist, how
over, mixed a ninth part of vital air with
pare hydrogenous gas, filled his lungs with
it, and set it on fire during the expiration—
which produced an explosion so dreadful
that the philosopher had like to have lost
all of his teeth by the experiment.
Pouhen .
Aaron Burr, it appears is in Sweden—
'pfobabl in the employ of the British go
vernment, whose sending him out of the
country was intended to conceal his mis
sion. As the Swedes ire capturing our ves
sels, it is suspected that A-Burr was sent
their to prick them on to these depreda
tion*.
Trenton American.
St. Louis, Louisiana , August 16.
Having heard of the execution of several
Delaware's and Shawnie's, at their towns
near Cape Girardeau, we had the curiosity
to enquire of Rogers, the Shavvauie chief,
as to the truth of the report.
Mr. Rogers says that Waabeleththeh, a
Delaware ; and Thathaway, a Shawonie
chief, summoned him to attend a solemn
council at their towns, that on his arrival
there he found that a great revolution was
about to take place, they had interdicted the
use of intoxicating liquours and determined
to abandon the chase, to raise stock and
corn for food, and teach their women to
spin and weave their cloths. They had es
tablished a court to try criminals, four per
sons were tried, three men were found
guilty, and one woman acquitted. Tne
condemned were led out of town to a thick
woods and tomahawk'd, they were then
placed on an immense pile of wood and
burnt to ashes; upwards of 100 men assist
ed at the execution.
The enquiry is going about as to what we
are to do in the present emergency. On this
point common sense would say, let the legisla
tures of tiie different states conciliate patties ;
let die real interests of the country be calmly
considered; let us discountenance local distinc
tions ; let us become more constitutional, and
consequently more national, by becoming more
united ; iet it no longer be Massachusians and
Virginians, New-Yorkers and Pennsylvanians,
but Américain : I hen shall we become more re
spected and formidable abroad, more collected
and happy at home ; let us also instead of talk
ing, art : for foreign nations will not befieve
that we are in earnest until we make a display
of something more than mere words T. Arft
, !
Cbe ôàsim.
fVilmington, September 2
18
JCT" The Democratic Repub leans of the bo
rough and its vicinity, arc requested to attend
meeting to he held at ANDERsGN'S TAV
a
ERN, on TUESDAY Evening next, at seven
o'clock, in order to make some arrangements
relative to the approaching general election.
Latest Foreign News. —An arrival at N. York
brings London dates to the 6th ot August, and
Greenock papers to the 1 0th; but tlitir contents
aie not of much importance to the American
reader. It was reported that the English Grand
Expedition had taken possession of VValchercn.
it was also reported that a rupture of the Ar
mistice had taken place, anti that another battle
ensued in which the French lost I 4,000 men.—
This report is not entitled to credit.
A gallant attack was made by some British
armed boats on the Russian flotilla in the Baltic,
in which they succeeded in sinking one gnn-boat
and hringing off six, together wiili twelve vessels
under the protection of tiie flotilla, laden with
powder and provisions for the Russian army.
The latest accounts from Germany state, that
the Emperor of Austria was at Olmutz, and the
Archduke Charle's head-quarters at F.ylau; and
that a congress of peace was to be held in Mora
via or Vienna.
That an accommodation was about to take
place between Russia and Sweden, die conditi
ons of which was—the surrender of I' inland and
the shutting of the Swedish ports against the
British.
The following article is extracted fiom a
London paper o. the 4th of August
" Private letters hom Holland state that
the official account of the preliminaries hav
ing been signed between Austria Sc France
has been received—the following has been
given as the substance of them with what
trim, we have no yet been aide to ascertain. ,
Bonaparte during the progress of the war, |
declared that he would place the kingdom
ot Havana in such a s.ihation as not to have
any thing to fear in future from the powor
rinn he I ° y 1 " l , hal tiL ' Cli,ra -
non be has acted. He is said to have wrest
ed irom Austria all her territories on the
right bank of the Danube; and to have ex
ended tue Bavarian territory to Vienna on
the hast, and following a line along the
frontiers of Hungary to the Drau, to have
ascended to the source of that river. A
hnc is then described to Inspruck and Bre
genz and this new accession of territory
given to Bavaria. All die territories
is
to the South of tile Drau, including part
of Carinthia, Carnioia, Istria, Trieste,
and Piume is added to the kingdom of
Italy. The Tyrol is ceded by Bavaria to
France. Wirtemburg and Baden
are to
get some accession of Territory in Fran
conia. Bohemia and Maria are to be re
tained by the House of Austria, as well as
Hungary—Russia is to obtain an increase
of Territory in Austrian Poland—Saxony is
also to have an increase. This is reported to
be the substance of the Preliminaries—We
do not believe that any copy of them has
been received, and indeed the intelligence
of their having been signed rests solely up
on the authority of private letters from Hol
land. We should have expected that an e
vent of such importance would have been
announced to us by rejoicings upon the
French coast, and by some bulletin convey
ed to us in the usual way. But for our
own parts we are not very anxious for the
arrival of the Preliminaries. The whole
business of humiliation and destruction was
done by the armistice—the rest is mere mat
ter of course—Znaim, Presburg and Giatz
would not have been given up—the Tyrol
would not have been abandoned to the
ven
geance of the eonquerer, had not Austria
been prepared to make almost any sacrifi
ces that were demanded of her.
HailStorm —On the 21sr August a thun
der gust, accompanied with hail, did much
damage in West-haven, Vermont.— i he
hail stones were of the size and shape of
dried figs, and tell with such a force, as to
break all the glass in a house fronting the
cloud ; to split and tear off shingles ; to
strip off die branches of apple trees of one
years growth and bruise the bark f
storm suie
of the trunks. Cattle in the fields had
small swellings raised by die hail, and some
hundreds ol larks, quads, blackbirds, rob
bins, Stc. were found dead in ihe fields,
victims to the tempests ; oats, peas, & .
were cut offby the rocs ; and on the day
after the storm die bait in many places
;
upon the level ground was four inches in
debth.
F»> the (it
it f.
To the Delegates.
You are to consider well your duty and
to do it, if vou desire to receive the appro
bation of the county. It is your duty to seek
and bring into nomination virtue and ta
, ! ferns—But ) ou ought not to indulge your
individual whims at public expence or sa
crifice. You ought not to turn the measure
you are the means of executing, to local
purposes.
As many of you contributed to carry this
measure when agreed on at Red-lion, you
are bound in honor not to abuse, a measure
of your own; and to employ the power you
possess, as delegates, to effect a local pur
pose will lie an abuse. The arguments for
the mode of selection by delegates were, to
"secure to the county virtue rnd talents,
and guard agan it thoughtless indiscretion"
— N» man ventured to assign for a reason
that "it would enable the county to exclude
New Castle, Pencader or any other hun
dred from being represented in the Legis
lature by men who were opposed to remov
ing the Court house." For certainly had
such reason been assigned, a contrary de
cision would have taken place; and whatso
ever was unfit to be avowed then, must be
unfit for you to execute.
In order to elucidate this point let us sup
pose that Wilmington, New-Casde and o
ther portions of tiie county should lay their
beads together to remove the funds of New
ark academy to one *f their colleges, and,
besides petitioning the Legislature, should
carry a plan of selection and election to ex
clude Newarkand its friends from a Repre-' 1
sentulive. Is there any of you would think
tiiis right ? So of every local question; jus
tice and fair play require they should he
heard and defended by their friends, ant!
every plan to rob them is dishonorable and
unjust.
a
Perhaps it may be said the Bridge ques.
lion was so disposed of: yes it was, but
that was .because New-Csstle and the op.
posing Hundrt ds refused the other tlisposi
lion by election, after the general election
was over. The proposed disposition oi that
question was, that each hundred should
send Delegates and the Referai ticket hi- '•
formed in the usual manner, and the '
tion <,f bridge and no bridge, referred u, the
people by elections to beheld in the
r rc
speciive hundreds in November.
Btil this
! ,, tJ P osil ' on was rejected, and its f, iends de
nounced by the opposer, of the bridge, and
as the friends were determined to have ti e
question tryed in some shape, none was left
them but by the general election. So far
as precedent goes, therefore,the bridge case
, s ag ai„ sl exclusion of opposer., and n the
removal of the court house has been refer
red to the neople on petition, and the
ppo
smon to removal bave co-opperated in the
measure of selection and Domination, it
wouid be illiberal in the highest degree, as
well as useless in ils effects, to exclude them
ot their share of representation.
It is not in the nature of things, that any
plan oi nominating candidates to b
e recoin
mended for luture approbation can be ap
proved, which is employed to mischievous i
put poses—nominations originated in a de
sire to harmonise a party, liable to divide
and weaken itself without.
The same pur ■
pose must be preset ved, otherwise co-oppe
ration oi all ihe parts cannot be expected.—
I lie plan by hundred elections would secure
this point, and will become
V if
necess
that by Delegates is abused to local
ever
purposes. The writer of this is a friend to
the Delegate plan and prtsu ncs the Dele
gates are so, and it is from a solicitude to
preserve the plan by an honorable a«d dig
nified execution of it, induces him to make
this address, fearful that want of eonsid
er
iug the subject might lead to what the op
position apprehends.
ii.
FOR THE GAZETTE.
To the Republicans of Pen cade r
Hundred.
I was extremely sor y to find so much
disunion among mv political brethren, as i
witnessed at tHe Red-lion meeting of the
9*h instant, and most sincerely regretted to
find that the intrigue of the New-Casth
leaders had insinuated itself into Pcncade'
hundred. Through tile influence of a cei
tain gentleman, whose business naturally
gives him some influence, a considerable
portion of the citizens of that hundred be
came violently opposed to a certain local
measure, now in agitation, contrary to their
own interests and a majority of the people
of the hundred. The gentleman from Pen
cmler who was so loquacious in opposition
to the old and true method of forming the
countv deket, was a irw weeks
ago, as is \ e
rv well known, an arrive advocate for the
removal of the seat of justice, and is now as
active in opposition :—the reason of this
sudden change deserves an explanation.—
By some accident lie w<** prevented from
attending the Red-lion meeting of tiie 24ri.
oi June, and did not happen to be placed ■<
the committee appointed at that meeting,
for *o meet on a subsequent dav, to draft
petition for the temoval of the seat of j
tice. &e. Stc. Immediately, upon hear! y
that hi
as not one of that committee, !'
changed sides, and w-nt riding about thro
his neighaorhood. telling the ridiculous
story that a new court house would cost the
comity 60,000 dollars—that tlitir taxes
would Ire doubled and trebled to pav this,
and asserted the same in a small meeting of
his own hundred held for the purpose of
consulting upon the measure. Now, what
are the people of Pencader hundred to
think of the weak, puerile and fickle créa
ture, who would let the disappointment of
being a member of a committee, influence
him in a matter of so much consequence to
a majority of the inhabitants of New-Cas
tle count)? I should not be disappointed to
see this gentleman, in case he should lose
his'eleciion, (as it is said he is now intrigue
ing for a seat in the assembly), change po
litics altogether. I hope the citizens of
Pencader hundred will he more circum
spect in their choice, and not. elect for their
representative a mere neat her cock, who
will change sides with every wind,
The
station of representative requires more
firmness, than perhaps any other; and a de
generate politician is, of all others,the most
G.
unfit for that station.
Or.er^ *,.mswsj
Top Sale, or Rent,
FARM within two miles of Port-Pcnn, on
A
the main roadleading to that place : it
1
contains seventy or eighty acres of woodland,
forty two acres of marsh, in the Angnstine
Ma'sli Company, the residue plough-land of a
good quality, i here is two tenement houses
and a new frame barn on the premises. The
mansion houfe will want fome repai s to make
it cotnfortab e. Should the p-operty not be
fold by the ist of November next, it wilt then
lie rented for a te rn of years. Alfo, for fate,
lent, Eleven acre in prafs lots adjoui'n g
o
the-own of New— asile. Kor term's, apply to
JOHN STOCKTON in Wilmington.
1 p. w. trll 1 Nov.
August jo, i3' p ,
Notice.
! i akc
T ■£
siiDHcuber, Kxïrutor of
»« Or.,»
of the courry of Su e »*cx ;;n
rtateoi Ti.
lawnre, deceased, being authorised to make >
» '
of the real estate of said deceased,
siui.'ite in ihr
county of Sussex, doth hercLy give notire that
he will dispose of the same, at pubi c
«'up,
v «
Wednesday the eighth day of November next, at
Johnstown, in the county afore-ad, between
the hours of 10 o'clock, A. M. and 3 in the
afternoon. The term, of purchase can he known
by applying to the subscriber near Johnstown.
William Carlisle.
Septem ber op,
41.
District Court.
Del,:
'are /IbVWr', o
w
WUHAN .,
'die! hath beer, filed in the
District (',
:t of the l.> iled States, by
(j iHOl-.C.H READ. Etq. attorney for tlie said
distort, acwii.rt q 1-,
gs coffee, I b-unl coffee,
! bai l'd
sugar, a; pots sweet me. ts, 1 keg rai
sins, 100 oranges, and Hi pine apples, of the
value of S 150 law fnl money or the Li. States,
seized far violating the revenue laws.
And whereas the honourable GL'NNNJO
BHD I OH D, Esq Judge oi the said District
Court, hath ordered the 4th dav of'October
1 80ÇJ, at 10 o'clock, A. M. for holding a speci
al District Court at the Town-Hid in the bo
rough of Wilmington, for the said Tiial
agree
airly to tiie prayer of tl
ie sa'd Attorney: A
/.V hireby g'Vtn, That a spe
I Di-tiiu Court
will be then and there held for the trial of the
premises, and the owner o
iitrr, and all
■ o
persons who may have o; c
mi at.)
!R
in
•crest or coi'.ct in therein, tit
hereby cited and
admonished to be and appear at the time t-nti
place aforesaid, tc
show cause if any they bate,
w by a final deurei
should not pi.ss, pursuant tu
bill
the prayer of the :
TKO
ITHEKSHOON,
Cart, of r/ie District C
rr,
rfer 20, I 30Ç).
tit.
4t
District Court.
i h /aware Dietiic/, rr.
HEREAS a lib 1 hath been filed in tit
•3
District Court of the United Sta'es, I .
GEORGE READ, Esq. attorney fur the sir.
iisirie.t, against the schooner JAMES, her t;,
k!r, apparel and furniture and the cargo loi
m board, seized for violating the not
ntitied, " An act to amend and
continue i.
force certain parts of the act entitled " As n
to interdict the commciclal intercourse hew,
the United States and Great Britain and Krai,
and their dependencies, and for other purpose
And whereas the Honorable GUNN1N.
BEDFORD, Esq. Judge of tlie said Dish'
Court, hath ordered the 4ih day of O- .
I80J), at it) o'clock, A. M. for holding a
dal District Court at the Town-Hail in the ii
rough of Wilmington, for the raid trial, acre.
ably to ilie prayer of the said Aminev
: Ki ■
i.v hereby ftivfit. That a special Distri
t C>-t •.
will be tlien and there held for the trial of ; :
premises, and the owner or owners, and all pv,
ions who may have or claim any tight, inter-,
or concern therein, are h rehv cit-ml adr... •
nislied to he and appear at Ihe lime and pim e . •
uresuid. to show cause ii any tin. y have, m . .
■Tial decree slic>uid not pass, pursuant t
It #
d bill.
THOMAS WITHERSPOON.
C'A rt. of th Marta Can
JVth:.motor, Set'rndir t'O, 1 Hi. 1
It
Dis'.nct c ourt.
Pr/aKrtrr Dr ri i, ft.
ii-.RHAb a libel hath been filed i
w
District ('ouït of the United S: r!
GEORGE READ, Esq. attorney lor
'hi: « .1
district, against the schooner EMMA, in : .
kle, apparel and furnituie, of the value oJ
lawful money of the United States, • ■ '
now lying in the Delaware liintrict, tt:r ■
vessel being seized as fmfiiictl by the collei n . I
the saic! district ior violating the art of Curt, i
entitled, " An act to interdit t the tom.i . :
intercourse between the Emiteii Suies a
Britain and France and their dependence:
for other purposes."
And ts/ierecs the honorable GUNNiG i : t
FORD, Esq. Judge of the st.id District G
hath ordered tiie 4th day of October !
at lO o'clock, A. M. fin' holding a special - i
trict Court at the Town-Hall, in the I".
of Wilmington, for the said triai, agree 1 ■
the prayer of the said Attorney : Naim »
bn given , That a special District Gctu t
then and there held for the trial of the pv
cs, and the owner or owners, and all p •
who niay have or claim any right, in.:.
concern therein, are hereby cin-.<l anti -
ished to be and appear at the time ant! pi
fore said, to shew cause if any they have,
a final decree should not pass, pursue, :
prarer of the said bill.
THOM ■kS WITHERS?
.Cleric of the District
It'ilnimrton, September 20, 180«)
.
Domestic Manufacturer,.
MSA! !E Patriotic citizensol Dri.,wn>e
p disposed to encourage A mérita
factories, ami thereby promote the ii
I'd«
• tf our country, are informed tints th
lias now on band and lor side, at the v. •
Staunton, (New -Castle ■ ounty) a goo ! • :
Cassa meres. Drab and Mix'd—.«Iso, n i. •
of co-tse Cloths, ami Felting for P i'
all wl it h will be sold low for Cash.
piece or smaller quantity.
,« order ai M'Xi?:
At Vifcrf, (Dcl.J 1 (nh &'ft
[ 8 .*> .
