Among tlie Ieadiugcbaracteiistics of the times
is the clamorous abuse heaped upon Mr,. Jeffer
son. It would seem as if the spirit of faction
must have some victim to mangle, and, disap
pointed in finding any vulnerable points in those
now at the head of affairs, had determined to
re
vive every stale calumny which ignorance or
ma
lice his fabricated during the past eight years
to obscure the fame of this distinguished citizen.
Professing an unbounded respect for rhe present
Chief Magistrate, it daringly carries the dagger
to the heart of his best friend, and denounces a
career in which he sustained himself a part only
•eoondary ; exhibiting as extraordinary a proof
of consistency as of respect for Mr. Madison.
Be it so. Soothing as it might have been to the
sage of Moriticello to close his last days amidst
the accents of universal praise, the syren sounds
might have exposed the solidity of his fame to
some question. It is not in the nature of igno
rance and depravity sincerely to praise what tlfcy
do not understand or hate ; and applause from
such a source might have been justly considered
as hypocritical or selfish. The character, which
the whole world applauds, is rarely understood,
oris extolled more for its negative than positive
traits. There is an inflexible sternness in viituc,
that disdains and repels the adulation of the
vicious, that shrinks from their approaches and
friendship, and considers itself most endangered
when made the subject of their
encomiums.
What, in fact, can he more equivocal than such
praise ? Can it spring from the love of virtue or
the honest admiration of profound talents ? This
would imply an integrity -altogether
wanting in
those who offer it. No.
it can only flow
from selfish considerations; from the desire to
retrieve a character bankrupt in the public
esteem, or from a wish to accomplish certain
ends of which this is made the means. Away,
then, with all such hollow homage. It can lie
the pedestal of no true greatness. It may under
mine, but it can never rear true glory. Mr.
Jefferson's fame requires no such trophy,
The
applause of the enlightened, The esteem of the
good, these are the imperishable shields that de
fend it.
Does a name, thus severencetl, require a de
fence against the unjust reproaches lavished a
gainst it ? Perhaps it does not. The blaze of
light which has accompanied all tbc great
meu
sures of Mr. Jefferson, and above all the fruits
of those measures gathered by a grateful nation,
are conclusive answers to the ceaseless atternp s
to impair his character. But safe as his fame is,
firmly as it may be fixed in the hearts of his
countrymen, silence might be construed into in
sensibility, and might expose his republican
friends to the charge of ingratitude, so affectedly
and falsely ascribed to republics. If, moreover,
the defence of his measures may not be requi
site to the preservation of his fame, they may not
be Unimportant to ourselves. We have certainly
reached a point of view, more commanding than
any which could heretofore be occupied by the
observer ; events aie now seen in their effects as
well as causes ; the connection of one measure
with that of another is more distinctly perceived ;
and the general effect of the whole is felt. Tlie
Chief Magistrate has also retired from his polili
cal eminence. The lustre of high station, the
cupidity for place, the thirst for power, no lon
ger dazzle and seduce. The medium through
which every thing is seen is unclouded, and the
award now pronounced may be viewed, in some
measure, as the award of history. It ought not,
therefore, to be considered as a superfluous or
useless task to pass in review the measures of
Mr. Jefferson'sadministraiion, however amply
they may heretofore have been scrutinized,
In performing this task, it will only be requi
site to take large and general views. Jt will not
be so necessary to scrutinize into the solidity of
every individual link, as to examine the general
character of the chain itself, whose soundness
and compctcntcy will abundantly appear from
the results from the several operations in which
it has been used. We shall,in the first instance,
take a view of our domestic concerns, then
-offer a view of our foreign affairs, and close the
enquiry with contrasting the situation of the
United States at the time of Mr. Jefferson's ac
cession with that of his retirement from office.
The leading measures of Mr. Jefferson's ad
ministration respecting our internal concerns may
be enumerted as follows.
The abolition of the internal taxes.
The abolition of what has been denominated
the mid-night judiciary.
Provision for the rapid discharge of the public
debt.
Reduction of useless expcnccs.
Appointments to office.
Suppression of Burr's conspiracy.
Pacification of the Indians.
General expenditure of the public money.
Throughout the whole of this enquiry in ex
amining the measutes pursued during Mr .Jeffer
son's administration we shall be in danger of im
puting to him opinions and acts, strictly speak
ing, not his own. According to the ttirory of
our government he is tlie sole Executive, and di
rectly, or by subordinate agents, wields the
whole executive power, for the exercise of
which he is considered as responsible. But al
is most obvious
though this be the theory, it -
that, in the discharge of duties so complicated,
multifarious, and remotely located, as those
which embrace the interests ot such an extensive
territory, lie must inevitably in many instances,
bestow a confidence almost unlimited, and ex
tremcly liable to abuse ; that, consequently, loi
the attainment of particular ends, means will
sometimes be used, which he, if similarly situ
ated wrh his agent, would have been the last
man in tire world to have adopted.
The same remark will apply, though with
of his cabinet, in
trengib
to the measures
.*s
understood that a degree of
a iiirh i
feei
respect, accommodation, and even
concession
prevailed, that very frequently prompted the
Chief Magistrate, on points which did not im
plicate principle, to forego his own opinion for
that of his council,
Few men that have ever
lived knew, in this respect, human nature bet
ter than Mr. Jefferson*
lie knew that ditstiti
guishpd talents united with integrity are un
bending, and disdain on ally occasion, to act
thé part Of a mere drudge. He, therefore,
wisely determined to surround himself with able
counsellors, and divide his power with them ;
so tu-r at feast as often to yield his own opinions
to tneirs. By setting tins example a spirit of
mutual confidence and concession was inspired,
and, ns valuable finit, a harmony of co-opera
tion insured. Although, then, Mr. Jefferson,
be constitutionally answerable lor all the mea
sures of Ins' cabinet, yet it would be unjust
not
to make an equitable allowance for the difference
of opinion winch always will fnorc or lebs cha
racterise independent minds.
If these considerations ought to influence our
judgement in apportioning our praise
r consule
to trie Executive nets of Mr. Jefferson's adminis
tration, how much more ought they to influ
ence that apportionment with regard to the leges
lathe nets of the government t Although it be
the duty of the President " from time to time to
give to Congress information of the state of the
Union, and recommend to their consideration
sures as he shall judge necessary and
suen mea
expedient,'' it is no less the right of Congress,
in ille exeicise of an indépendant judgement, .to
adopt or reject the measures thus recommended,
or pursue such other measures as they may see
fit.
And, although it be admitted that there
great and unusual harmony betweeu Mr.
WU8
Jttteison and Congress during the whole course
ot his administration, yet, there is no doubt but
that they in some cases rejected his advice, and
adopted measures which he would never have
suggested.
Keeping these circumstances in view let us
proceed to a consideration of the leading
mea
sures adopted during his administration.
(Tu be Continued. J
%\)t d5a5Ctte.
fVilmington , jfuly 22 , 1809 .
An arrival at Boston from Halifax brings
London paper» to the 25th of May, which con
tain intelligence of the utmost importance to
this country. The correspondence between
Mr. Erskine and the Secretary of State had
reached London, and on the 24th of May Mr.
Canning declared in the British House of Com
mons that the agreement purporting to be en
tered into between their minister and our
go
vernment, mas not mode in conformity with the
•wishes of his majesty, nor such as his majesty could
approve of. Thus has tlie confidence of our
government been abused, and the property of
our citizens exposed to lawless depredation by
the wicked machinations of a corrupt ministry.
It is true that Mr. Canning, by way of smooth
ing off the matter, has said that the British go
's eminent would respect the settlement that
has been made until Us explanations reach A
But who will believe him ? Will not
merica.
even some of his good friends in this country
tremble for the fate of their property ? Can
any one suppose that Mr. Erskine would have
been so fool-hardy as to make the proposals Ite
did without full instructions from his govern
ment ? We have had sufficient proof of Mr.
Canning's talent for quibbling and sophistry to
suppose he may succeed in blasting the repu
tation of Mr. Erskine, as he has endeavored to
do that of Mr. Pinckney, but we are certain
that the disposition of the British ministry to
wards this country, will be now properly ap
preciated. Whatever evils may result from
the misplaced confidence of our government,
as it must be apparent to all that a sincere de
sire to reconcile the existing differences has
been manifested on our part, honest men of all
parties will now rally round the government,
and the small, contemptible British faction in
this country will be fain to hide its diminished
head.
Summary of Foreign Aras .—London papers
state that the king of Sweden has been formally
deposed, and the government placed in the
hands of the prince regent, until a new consti
tution should be finally settled.
That the emperor of Russia had declared
war against Austria, and marched his armies
into Gallicia and defeated them.
That Bonaparte has advanced to Vienna
without any additioriaVbattle, leaving the Aus
trian army under the Archduke Charles in Bo
hemia r, and an Austrian force on the Tyrol. Jt
was presumed that French troops would pro
ceed immediately for Hungary, in order to an
ticipate an insurrection there.
The emperor of Austria is said to have writ
ten a letter to the emperor Napoleon, imploring
an armistice and peace of his majesty in the
most humble expressions. It is not known
what answer was returned, but conjectured to
have been an unfavourable one.
A French squadro'n is said to have escaped
from Toulon, and thrown itself into Bavcelon.
This is probably the squadron reported by cap
tain Dashiells to have been captured by Lord
Collingvvood. The account is probably incor
rect.
Rear admiral Harvey has been dismissed
from the British service, for using " vehement
and insulting language" to admiral Gambier.
Capture of the Toulon Fleet ,—Captain Dash
iells of the sloop Henry in 3 days from Ber
ttitma, informs ns that lie sailed from Martin
ique on the 3rth of June, and on that day, ad- 1
vices were received there ofthe* capturer .of the
1 onion, flee Y by. Lord Coliingwood, consisting
of 5 sai. of the line, 6" or 7 frigates, and 30
transports, having on board the French garri*
son of Barcelona. Capt. D. further states that
a vessel had arrived at Martinique having spo r
ken an American ship, from Gibratar, and was
informed by the American captain, that Lord
Collingvvood bail arrived at Gibraltar previous
to his.sailing, with the Whole French fleet his
prizes. I
The above account is confirmed by f; letter
from St, Croix, of the 2d July, received bv the
Richard. " A. Y. Oa.:.
C-mJèdcration-of the Rhine.
I his-confederation has been recently formed
by several German" State»! and as it has now be
come very important in the scale of affairs on
tile Continent, and will probably become
more
so from the large acquisition of strength it will
receive in the present war, we lay a short ac
count of it before our leaders.
Several German States situated between the
Rhine and the Mayne, separated themsel
ves
from the Germanic body, and associated as
confederate states of the Rhine, under the pro
tectioii-of the French empire, in the year 180b',
The instrument of confederation was signed at
Paris on the 12th July, tiie same year. The
contracting parties were the Emperor of the
French on the one part, and on the other the
Kings of Bavaria and Wirtemberg (made kings
by Bonaparte the year before) the Archduke
Ob R.Hjsbon, as Prince primate, the Grand
Pukes of Baden, Berg, Hesse-fSarmstadt,
Nassau-VVeilbourgh, and Nassau- Usingen, the
Princes of Hohenzollern Hictrngen, undSeig
mûVing'jiv-Salm-Sulm, Salm-Kyrburg, Isen
burgli, Birsteinand Lilch-tenstein, the Duke
of Ahremberg, and the Prince of Leyn.' They
declared that they would admit otiier German
Princes and States in all cases where their union
with the Confederation might be found con
sistent with rhe general interest ; and thus vir
tually annihilated the inconsiderable part that
wes left of flic German empire. This induced
Francis II, last Emperor of Germany, and i
of Austria, formally to abdicate the German
empire by his proclamation of the fith of August
180b. It was then expected that a similar Con
federation would be formed north of the Maybe,
under the protection of either Prussia or Russia;
but the King of Prussia having declared war a
gainst France in October 180b, and having
been struck nerveless at fhebattle of Jena, 14th
of the same month, several other German
States hastened to join the Confederation of the
Rhine, as Lieppe Detmold, Schaumburg-Buke
burg, Saxe-Wei mar, Saxe Got ha, Saxe Co
bourg, and the newly created kingdom of Sax
ony (formed out of the electorate of Saxony,
duchy of Warsaw, and some oiher acquisitions)
tlie King of which is the late Elector of Saxo
ny. By tlie peace of Tilsit in 1807, which e
rects the Prussian provinces on the right bank
of the Elbe and the possessions of Hesse-Cas
scl, Orange-Fulda, and other petty German
states into a new kingdom called Westphalia,
(over which is placed Jerome Bonaparte of
Baltimore memory.) the Confederation of the
Rhine is extended to the bank of the Elbe ; and
Prussia has since (in 1 808) joined the Confede
ration, By this Federal compact an union of
several sovereign srates has taken place, em
bracing a population double that of the U. S.
of America, forming' a complete barrier to
France on the German side, and ripping up
completely the Germanic Empire, leaving
Francis nothing but the hereditary states.—It
is a stupendous fabric erected by the mighty
genius of Napoleon, and will do more to sub
serve his purposes in subjugating Europe, than
an alliance with the most powerful kingdom on
the continent.
It may be said with certainty, to this Con
federation the house of Austria owes its down
fall. In a little time Francis will be dethroned
and drove from his hereditary possessions ;
every tiling which will be left to him he will
hold by the precarious tenure of Napoleon's
bounty ; and willingly would he then accept
of. a life-estate in the small possessions which
the house of Hapsburg once possessed in the
Canton of Bern. But the fatal decree has been
proclaimed : Napoleon has said he should
cease to reign ; and with his reign ends a rest
ing place for him on the continent.
Centinel of Freedom.
The Republicans in 'fl8. and *99 unequivocal
ly disapproved of the measures of Mr. Adams'
administration; and they row as iieely com
mend him for bringing to light the midnight ini
quity which then prevailed with the " Essex
junto."—For this they are represented in the
federal papers as acting an inconsistent part ;
and the question is exultingly asked'—how can
you now approve of the man you then so loudly
condemned.—An answer is ready : Mr A
dams was a better man than his measures be
spoke—and being at the helm of state he had to
father the misconduet of others. But since
tlie truth has come out, it plainly appears that
the most obnoxious measures of bis adminis
tration are to be traced to the contaminating
influence of Hamilton and Pickering, and not
to Mr. Adams. Now, who is most inconsistent,
the Republicans in commending an honest de
velopemeut of infamy and intrigue ; or the Fe
deralists in blunting the effect of their expo
sures by reproaching their old friend and ad
vocate. Ibid.
1'oa the Delaware ca.
I JA,,
_ , ...
Democratic Citizens ef jNexv-Cas.f •
t ' Ccuiltj,
New-O ist-e county ig undoubtedly the strm- -
hold of democracy in Delaware, It is t' e
Mount Arrarat mi which the ark of our saferv
^ oun ■ a testing place, when the deluge of Fedi -
ra ^- srn overwhelmed the state, it is your hi";:
es * praise not to hire been overcome—for will,.
ODt tinion, without design, without leader- ,
l ?' n ty petty jealousies and conflicting Unimoft
,les > you have kept tile field in the face ofoheci
ent partisans, headed by a bold ami artful ark -
t ? crac T'-bot -there is another, and a serious
view ot this subject, a view which flattery migl-.r
conceal, or good nature soften. You will not
always be so fortunate. It is the wise order *ot
nature, that success shall crown eJöertiotr— -e&u
active vice, Will prevail over inactive virtue
Learn from our opponents, their discipline and.
conduct, and your cause.-wlll give.yoû tire vac- 1 •
tOT y- If your political opponents, arefixediu
their purpose, enlightened as to the means, de
termined as to the end, it becomes you, to be
circumspect and vigilant in.-np ordinary degite.
If thev move l
body <>f Vilich their parly in
terest is the soul, it becomes you to connect
yourselves, by that individuality of .prrnclp'e«
which 1 know you Je el.
It lias ever been y
r error. 'and your punish
ment, to be deficient in union and 'p.ei'sevfr'eiVci-.
Contemptible local interests have oveibxl&nce.i
great political motives, andvou have bowed die
neck to an imperious aristoqraev, rather tbau
refrain from tatting part in town and borough
animosities.
I in
e seen and lamented these degrading,
scenes. When the Wilmington bridge was erect
ed, Î bad hoped, that tiie euttain had fallen on
them for ever. But it again rises,—rises to exhi
hit lor the entertainment of. oui enemies, soothe 1
act of petty rivaFsbipj ot contemptible folly. Çn
tier the garb of general utility,' under the bro.nl
mantle ot the people's good, seif interest and
envy, have undertaken to remove the seat of jus*
tice in New Castle county !—The faith ot the
county is to fie violated, am! their pockets emp
tied ; the democratic party once more to he sha
ken to its very centre, if indeed it survive *he
shock—lor ' what ? What'is this political sin
which is to Ining the fire and brimstone of tee
county upon tne devoted Sodom?—a road, .*
turnpike road from New Castle to French lows,
to facmt ite the communication from Philadelphia
to Bahimote i—Partariitut Montes, nasceiur
ridicules mus 1" Besotted must have been the
intellect, despicable the understanding, worse
than nothing the judgement, which could have
assigned such e motive as the real one for moving
the court-house. Such conduct was only equalled
lu its cowardice, by the shadowness of mind
winch prompted the pretext. Is then the pros
perity, the public spirit of a town to become the
signal for its ruin ?—,1s the reward for a steady
adherence to democracy, to.be found in a pro
scription by thoss whom New Castle has never
deserted ! Is this the means of making democra
cy flourish ? Persecution may be carried too far
—the sense of injury will nerve the hand of re
sentment. Your wisdom, . y our.'impartiality.
tellow citizens, alone can repress these angu
effervescences, by frowning into silence these
non descript disturbers of tlre public peace—like
a gloomy tyrant of antiquity they cannot bcai
that any town should raise its head above the in
sipid level of its fellows. Concluding thev.ourtv
house to be the sourcc.of the prosperity of New
Castle, each individual declaims on the disad
vantages of its present situation-, and proposes as
his interest prompts, Chiistiatu*. Bridge, the Red
Lion, Staunton or the Bear,- What noble coun
sellors! grave advisersl Take them to.your far».
tom, and if anarchy be not thé result, let folly .
in futute usurp with impunity the seat of wis
dom! " •
. ( Xo he Continu "d.J
Ann Cannon
R ESPECTFULLYinforms her frienrfo
and the public in general; that she has
opened
A Milinary 8c F^ncy Store,
next door to Mrs. Huggins's Tavern, Mar >
ket street, Wilmington (Del.)
July 22.
WILMINGTON COLLMGE.
HE Trustees of Wilmington College
T
take pleasure in beingable to announce
to the public the revival of the Latin school
in this institution, under the immedtati*
careofMr. Bigelow and general superin
tendance of the Rev. Dr. Read, l'he heal
thy situation of Wilmington, its character
for morality, the goodness of its market
and Ghoifie of best boarding houses, joined
to the evidence of Mr. Bigelow*» capacity
as a teacher, and the long and justly esta
blished reputation of Dr. Read as a suet bs* ■
ful preceptor, all concur to recommend thin
seminary to the attention bf Parents ant!
Guardians, anxious to promote the educa
tion and improvement of the youth intrus' •
ed to their care, espscially when they « "
further assured that the other departments
of the College are provided with tutors ii>'
ly adequate to their, appointments, and ot
unexceptionable moral cnaracters
By order of the Board,
ROBERT HAMILTON,
EBENEZER A. SMITH,
JOHN RUMSEY,
WILLIAM PRYCE,
July 22, 1809,
tf
