•JtBO'M THE NjrriONAt IVTELt.lGi.NCER.
Tut NEW WORLD.
■Ko. It,
An enquiry ikto the N atiokal Charac
L 1 KIT ED
People as the
teh or THE
States ot A'mwuca. .
As the American people have, as it were,
carved their productive country out of the stu
pendous forest which covered their dominions,
fo have they made out of the systems of policy,
morals and religion of the old world, their own
plan of justice and eiviiiaation in relation to the
Indian aborigines: their own penal code for
unhappy criminals: a complete extinction ol
the commerce in men : their own constitutions
of social freedom and of federative union, and
their own blessed establishment of religious
■liberty. Since, however, this enquiry ought
to be so conducted, as to satisfy the most in
telligent among ourselves, and to carry convie
lion to the sagacious and the candid u. the lo
•dicatlve of tiatinaql churacter. They will arise,
lira more impressive manner, in the course of
;
»the investigation.
It is a matter if dispensible to truth in this
-»cnaniry attentively to consider wfiat this coun
It is a matter dispensible ^
-»cnaniry attentively to consider wfiat this coun
'try veafiy was between its first settlement in ^
■»thebeginning of the seventeenth century and ^
fits separation-from the British connection to
■ Æard'S the close of the eighteenth. his conn
try certainly was during that period, strong y
- ittaccuri^e to'consider'it'as a* mere'and exclu
- sive Fmalish. establishment, as to the birth of r
its stock of inhabitants, as to the institutions it ■ w
established, and as to the letter and spirit of
its laws. The English materials in qur eompo- (
sition were very considerable ; but we derived
•much from other kingdoms,states, and church
: much from our own necessities, occasions, ;
cs
dispositions and faculties, it »me of the fami
lies planted in the late American provinces were
from the land of Newton,-Milton, Bacor, Coke,
Shakespeare and Marlborough, others were
from the countries of Luther, Calvin and Men
no, Grotius, Puiîeodot'fi and V sttel, Dc W ilt, d
Gustavus and the great Frederick, Leibnitz,
Bocrhavc and Linnens, Swift, Burke, Hutche- f
, Hume, Stuart, Ferguson, Napier, Knox,
SOU
aiuchanan, Hunter and Monro. Lçt us re
vive, then, with attention, certain historical
truths, remembering that it is no worse to
have been derived lrom all the nal'ons of the
wise, the learned an 1 tire good, than to have
been derived from one alone; and that salutary j
institutions and principles, ohtiiincd irorn tin*
British kingdoms (as they *.ue now culled; ot p
irtjm the continent ot Europe or from the le- j r
sources ul our own minds, are no derogation t
f,; C m t.t£ W.xmisof U'.ose, wncli.Tev ^
ghcan. I nejr have all contnbvled to the pre- »
sent conformation «Lauf Matronal character.
Tb, anthors and founders ol empires natu
; -u-t thr Tuihhc regard. 1 he um»ed
Tally'
.1 .ali inc puGUL ib a tmi. / 1
cans .revere the name of the Genoese
A
", cherish lifs memory as a nun,non
t — r,n universalfixtins
' iey f Ä , c " 2. US y
:.sei:trct
e in-.'iCc of the pretensions
t nr- -tre
resist .
give his name to their ca*i;itry.
rinn Americu* to
sfCtfttd order.of.their discoverers, they
■* .A*
both the Venetian t'«bols and Americu:.
Vcsptitiu5, Toe lamv.oi discoveiiag tl.iis new
world is vieuled wit. a atrior and affection to
erprismg tlabans, who belonged
these foui
tiie nations that have given set
not to any m
The enthusiasm with
t'«rs. to this, country.
wWch 'Columbus, the Cabots and. Americus
are respectively tegarded, is felt equally by the
native and the nauiralized ; for the consequent
advantages of those discoveries, at such a cri
. .sis as the close of the fifteenth century, equally
•'benefit our whole population. At the memor
able epneha of the first effectual North Ameri
can settlements, the monstrous Colossu« ot
ecclesiastical tyranny bestrode all Christendom,
exercising its sacrilegious force, through dun
pconn, fines, tortures and murders, in direct
collision with the authority of llcavcn , over the
human conscience. .Considering the solemn
and astonishing truth, that in tfie first eigh
teen Jong centuries of the Christian «ta, no one
government beyond the Atlantic conceded the
freedom of religion to its citizens or subjects,
it ought not to he a matter of any surprise, that
klie united Americans unanimously look back
wniiirverence at the enterprise of Columbus.
Well indeed may they consider him as the
blessed guide, under Divine'Providence, who
led the oppressed children vrf conscience of ma
ny nations to this land of religious peace.
COLUMBIANUS.
From the Same.
A Memoir on the subject of a Navigation Act, inclu
ding tin* encouragement of the manufactory of
Inirs and sea vessels, and the protection of
ma<
Conclu! cd.
Suggestions in relation to a navigation arf,
respectfully submitted, lo the public judg
ment•
Foreign colontal principles, Incorrectly
applied to the most forcible and unjust usur
patients by the sword, as well as to scenes
populated by national migration, are often
usm! in très ies and statutes, to deprive the
U biates of profitable and fair reciprocif
f trade writ eight tenihs of tnc subjects o'
o;
foreign povve.rs, while our territorial di»
aûci Valuable 'eoltSnie*),
trrdi* t*ur genuine
and a precious acquisition by fair and cost
ly purchase, aroequally open to those, who
have and those. Who have not oohmies : to
those who exclude us from, aud those, who
admit u* into their colonial establishments.
Some nation* refuse a participation in the
carriage of our own- produce to their colo
nies, and thev escape the countervailing
justice of an export duty, because our consti
tution forbids that imposition. The returns
for these exports are often made in distilled
spirits, from the freight of which we are al
so excluded, though thev interfere with the
produce of our orchards, and wi^h those
breweries and distilleries, which support
These
and fruit.
tl le prices of our grain
f ure j„ n spirits also interfere with the pro
, Qur VJl8 , importation of molasses in
vessels. It is respectfully submit
provision fit for insertion in a per
system of commercial laws, that ah
j , be laid upon fermented li
add.*>nal■duty t.e la d upon
ports or countries into wbiéh our vessels
j ;ire not permitted by permanent laws, to en
Ler, for a participation in such trade, and
^ which commodities they may not carry
e 'nhsr in cash or in the produce of
^ u. States. If we gain the juu recipro
^ ôur ship-wrights and merchant* will
c.. :f |rot; üUr landed interest
trader# in distilled spirits, wines
n ' oWeri ,
will gain considerable mdvamages. A fo
r eirn monopoly, ex'tngutshable bj ortr laws,
■ w ;% be excluded from our country. As an
evidence of the extreme injustice of foreign
( aws anc i treaties in this respect, it may be
correcl ( v stated, that the tranulacturcs of
our principal supplier consumed by us, and
; Lu participate the carriage, would
three thousand hogsheads, while the
not till mree mou a u g V.,
monopolised freight of the oilheir co
Ionics is actually paid on thirty thousand.
Ionics is actually paid on thirty
An excluding duty upèn all produce of
d ie f orc igu fisheries, belonging to the gov
ernmen t* which »o duly exclude ours, would in
f aV or the fishing and coasting traders, and
^_ bu ;i,j; n .. am ] would occasion a de
mand on 0 - ur „^culture f or substitutes, in
r ; b ui i and salted nrovisions.
the sh<q e , -I
An abolition of all the present duties on
me , candle vessel* (to place them on a foot- s
j ng with working waggons) is respectfully
su gg^sted, ships being the vehicles for our
p rs j l[C ^ as much as carriages. Bat* as to
j r • n nat jons m a v continue to impose (iu*
t - |es and light-monev on our vessels, provi
b , eqa i va l ent duties
» . • , b . d ' ThcSK it is
would nroduce a fund sufficient it
believed, would produce a fund sufficient
lor the cxpences oi the establishments tor
, V , r c i • «
the direction and safety of shipping. Hut,
if they should not, then the ordinary impost
Jle a J ust For, it it is niter to
include this actual charge of importation,
like the rest, in the price of the commodity,
than, to demand the same tonnage from an
American manufactured ship in bullaet, as is
paid bv a ship with a rich cargo oj foreign
manufactures and produce. It seems to .be
a different spirit wnich solicits an absti
nence from duty and working and even on tf
pleasure carriages, imposing the road tax
r ° i re
upon the persons and property of the poor
and the rich ; and which asks no tonnage
duty from tbe builder and •i vjj.;- oi the
greatest vehicle of our country , produce,
It would almost be a familial, safe, wise
nnd just provision of law to declare no fo
reign ship shall bring ,o us the produce of
anv country hut his own, unless is govern- '
. 1 . , .*» ,
ment grants to our vessels, with enttre good
faith, the privilege of carrying to their
ports the produce of foreign countiies, as
freely as to their own «hips. The subject
of this suggestion is conceived to be of prima
ry importance.
The immediate exclusion of cotton uarn
from all countries, and the gradual exclu
sion of low priced cotton manufactures
r . . , . manuiactures,
from countries, which do not consume our
cotton wool, would occasion the small
freight which those goods afford us, tobe
exchanged for the freight
on our own coc
ton, exported to make such goods abroad,
and the freight of the goods, so manufactur
ed,back to this country. 1 he increased
con
sumption of our own cotton would benefit
agricultre, as well
This oc
as commerce.
of
curs to a great extent in the East India
trade. It would bè perfectly easy and more
advantageous on the whole, to lade our
India vessels with sugar, coffee, spices,
tea*, silks, porcelain, saltpetre and some o
tlier commodities, than of good* made of
foreign rival cotton. It is. conceived, how
yvei, that China ought to form an excep
tion, as that country treats us with perfect
reciprocity and justice.
An allied duty is laid upon the mercan
.lie transactions of our citizens in some
•HintricS, An extra duty of one per cent.
•in all dutied manufacture* from the domi
o'
nions of such powers plight y ield an indem
nity, or pr-rdùeV&ft abolition of these invi
dious impositions. :
Some counines exclude all our manulac
VVe receive
o ihers admit them.
turcs.
An tx'raordinary, impost on the least
all.
liberal, is a dot? to the most liberal and to
ourselves. This would be the more just,
because while our manufactures and pro
ducts are rejected by sonie countries, they
receive the same kind of goods from other
friendly nations.
A duty is respectfully suggested ol two
and one half per cent, upon all goods, wares
and merchandise on board any vessel of the
U. Situes, from which a passenger or
con
traded seaman shall be impressed, wnich
ods shall be the properly of a subject or
A duty
citize n of the impressing power.
to be made payable in six
is also suggested,
months aber the end ol every eitlem r
year, on all the dotted manufactures oteve
rr foreign nation, unless it shall be officially
declared by the Secretary ol State, within
mon , h preceding the time of payment,
has been commit 1 1, g r
der year of importation, on •• -
ship or vessel of the Lotted butts, and re.
mams uncompensated and unremeclieti, to
the best of his knowledge, From these
duties wc might except cotton goods from
Europe, as generally made ot our own pro
duce. If it be thought a delicate operation,
thus to deal with foreign nations, it is no
, leM «diente anv longer to endure violations
of the persrmal right, of A meric.m cm
Kens, and of the flag of the U. S. We do
No
not impress out of any foreign ship,
foreign government would suffer the pralice
at our hands.
our
It would greatly encourage the carrying
trade and ship-building (as well a, matiulac
tures, and the improvement and cultivation oi
our lands), if iron were to be made a free corn
modify ; and if a duty fully equal to, or even
of
thBtoni ^, were laid on foreign
manufactures of that material. More than
in
half our 1;ar iron is said to he imported. Fo-'
It
reign and American artists and improvements.
in the metal branches, abound in the U. States,
The raw material is really wanted. The con
sumption would be quickly increased hv the
spring, which would be given to the iron ma
nufactory. The iron masters would not lose
their profits, since it would only be a change of
The great mercantile manufacture of
s „ a ' vcs „ e ] s j s f aV ourahlv affected by the ahun
dance of iron, and the number or iron manu
facturera. We exempt raw hides and skins
from duty to encourage the leather manufac
lures, though foreign skins interfere wth the
produce of everv farm. This aid or rather rc
Inf to ship building, the fisheries and carrying
trade, would be substantial, safe, and just, yet
it could not excite jealousy or a disposition to
terva}Ii d on t |, e part or foreign go
* * . .. 13 r
vernments—a circumstance always worthy of
atterlt ; on Cheap ships as vehicles of our bro
(hcl , nPf/ >re as ' important t0 ' tbe pU , nt .
crSj farmers and government, as cheap wag
gons. Greater fortunes have been made by
mon works cn a medium, than can be expected
by building and owning vessels henceforth.
The latter occupations are more likely to want
the aid of a fair and judicious economy, than
the former, and the persons engaged in them
arc rml , ch . nior e numerous than the iron mas
tf ' vs It is conceived that the common and ■
approtutd principle ot exempting raw materials
bom dutv, .s in no case more fiuilv applied
thm u wm ,M be in respect toiron. ' '
The exemntion of hemp and flax from ira
post, and raising the dwiies nn all llie n»an\i
factures of hemp and flax would also encourage
,ne building and employnv nt of ships, and give
a spring to those manufactures in the U. States,
w u U, " h Wüu,d P rob i ,b '>' "«aston the freedom of
' hK Tï '" W matena . 1 ? to be ln J'"\ nl ' s : ^ a :.
ny of the reasons which arise on the stibiect of
occur iu rt . specl t0 hemp and flax. The
carriage by sea of these two commodities,
would emplov many vessels. In every case of
tlie encouragement of mercantile manufactures
(and of all others), the consumption and em
ploy ment if grain, flour, meat, beer, cider,
? isli!,ed < 8 Pj r j îs « bo, '« s - working oxen, build
r"", maUllaN and which are all drawn
"1",/ 7 ?' ": ould K«ve an extens.ot. to ehe
markets of the farmers, greater than that
which arises from the production of the
raw
material,
It is considered, that an experience of years
has furnished evidence of the expediency of our
laws respecting foreign interposition in the
coasting trade ; yet a deliberate revision ol'
them, for the purpose of adopting similar or
suitable provisions in a new act of navigation,
would be a very interesting part oflhe proposed
The coasting trade of G. Britain
measure.
steadily employs more tonnage and seamen
than any other branch of their great commerce,
though they possess colonies and dominions in
the four quarters of the
'oriel. As we have
not any transmarine establishments, this branch
of navigation is the more important,
The
purchase ot Louisiana has greatly increased
our coasting trade.
This brief and Imperfect memoir is only in
tended as a respectful effort to bring into early
consideration a wist and equitable system of
statutable provisions for the promotion of
our
navigation, commerce and fisheries, and for
tne protection of our seamen and mercantile
nag. The general
nature of the suggested
will b* sufficiently indicated by the
measure
principles, facts .aid- obsti -«Hot? Wi
or»
litre submitted, The Wistlbm bf (lie legislative,
and executive government, in constitutional
concert, in this as in all o her cases, will de
cide on the-expediency, the necessity and the
various modification* of the national laws.
From the Same.
On the int-olicj/ of JZngli\h i tr. I FrenchRestrictions
on trade.
ContinucJ.
The French government has pursued
an
equally unwise policy with regard to com.
In her fruitless attempts to rcla.
merce.
Hate an her enemy, she has still more deep,
ly wounded herself. U is astonishing that
a government so enlightened in other res.
pects should have betrayed so flagrant
an,
ignorance on this r—int. Such conduct is
among thejmosi striking proofs of the blind
ness with which ungovernable passion pur
sues its ijiigilirnate ends. It is, if possible,
still more surprising that the çyedof the
French government have not been opened
by experience. Let us hope that the day of
dispassionate reflection will soon arrive,
anti that Napofeon will at length discern
that the solid interest of his nation will be
best advanced by a removal of every restric
tion on neutral trade, and that this will lie
the most terrible as well as honorable reta
liation he can retort upon his enemy.
The French government in adopting the
ronviction that it would lie able (o seal the
poris nf the continent against the intro,
duciion of British commodities, surrender
ed itself to a fatal error. It ascribed to phyc
sical force a power which it doe* not and
cannot possess. It fancied that it could
carry into effect an object, repugnant to the
habits and feelings of ages, by an armed
force, only efficient by concentration, arid
even then subject 1 o the influence ot a con
stant corruption. By a partial enforcement
of it* measures, it presented the most pow
erful temptations to fraud by its rich reward
in every instance where it was successful.
It scattered far and- wide tbe seeds of dis
cord by producing the impression that the
rxisring deprivations were the,offspring of
French measures, and not of thpse of Eng
land.
Let u* reverse the picture and content
plate the effects of an opposite policy.
Let us suppose that France had oppos
ed to every British reliction on trade a
new freedom or privilege ; or, in other
words, that she had thrown open all her
porta to the whole world, even to England
herself,- and had induced alt the nations of
the continent to imitate her- exsStnple.
She would, at once, have had the Voice
of all uations on her side ; and they would
have united under such banners without the
shadow of coercion. Their people would
have supported them heart in hand, ascrib
ing the deprivations they suffered to the
English government, agaio&t which they
would have cordially united.
She would have emboldened neutral com
merce to the most strenuous efforts to dis
pose ofher produce and supply her wants,
by diminishing the risks attending it and
increasing its rewartfs.
She would have lost the profits of tra.de
(a loss under any aspect of affairs inevita
ble) but she would have balanced the gains
of her enemy by those of neutrals, and have
completely succeeded in preventing a mo
nopoly.
She would have retained several of her
colonies by the means for their defence
which she would have been enabled to gatlv
cr from their prosperity, and their conse
quent satisfaction with their parent coun
try.
But it may be said this is all idle, and
that just as these remarks might have been
years since, they are inapplicable ta
some
the present state of things.
Were this the fact we should not have
offered them
They are substantially such
ought still tu guide the Court of St.
as
Cloud.
It is true that France has lost her marine
and those of her colonies, and is shorn of the
honors of commerce, and that most of her
allies are reduced to the same condition.
It is no less true that Engiatid has gained
a great part of what they have lost.
How then is France and her associates
retrieve what they have lost, or to gain
to
an equivalent for it ?
We answer, by an eternal adieu to the
system of commercial restriction in all its
features.
1 hi* will still have the political effect of
uniting all the nations ol Europe into an in
dissoluble chhift of Interest against the des
potism of England on the ocean. It will
likewise knit them together into a confede
racy for ihe supply of their respective wants
among themselves.
It will remove all necessity for coercion.
The enterprise of their subjects will be left
tree to pursue its own career. They will
be contented tinder their governments, and
so iar.-a3-natural means permit, they wify **
