poetry.
THE MO 1 HER TO HER CHILD.
Welcome thou little dimpled stranger,
O ! welcome to mj fond embrace ;
vard of pain and danger,
Thou
*eet
Stilt let me press thy cherub face.
Dear source of many a mingled feeling :
How did I dread, yet wish thee here !
While hope and fear by turns prevailing,
Served but to render thee more dear,.
How glowed my heart with exultation,
So late ihe anxious seat of care,
When first thy voice of supplication,
Stole sweetly on thy mother's ear.
What words could speak the bright emotion
That sparkled in thy father's eye,
When to his fond paternal bosom
He fondly press'd the darling boy !
Oh '. that thou may'st, sweet babe, inherit
Each virtue of his heart most dear ;
His manly grace, his matchless merit,
Is still thy doating mother's prayer.
While on thy downy couch reposing.
To watch thee is my tender toil r
veet bine eyes unclosing,
I mark thy
1 fondly hail thy cherub smile.
Smile on, sweet babe, unknown to sorrow,
Still brightly beam thy heavenly eye ;
And may'st the dawn of ev'ry morrow
Shed blessings on my darling boy.
ï rom the Boston Mirror.
H AP PIN ES- A F R ACME N T.
*■**# The scenes of my life have
been sad, said a poor Frenchman,
who had scrambled tip one of the
most précipitons mountains ofNorth
Wales, and was now pensively lean
ing on his stick.and casting a mourn
ful look toward the wide expanse
of waters, which bounded his pros
pect—"The scenes of my life have
been sad," repeated he, and a tear si- I
lentlv stole down his cheek, ns the
painful recollcc'ton of the past again |
strttek his soul—" I have pursued the
bubble happiness all over 'lie world, j
and have lived but to find it a phan- j
tom of the brain—I have suffered the j
torture of the inquisition in Spain—
I have been chained to the gallics in j
Italy—I have starved on the moun- |
tains of Switzerland—I have groaned
as a slave -n Tut key—I have lan
guished beneath the republican ty
rami) m France—and, lastlv, I have
been whipped as a vagabond in Eng
land—and I am grown grey in
misery, and old age has overtaken
me in \v*etch"dness !"—The tears'
streamed plen »fully down the chteks
of the unfortunate old man, as
this painful retrospect oesented
itself to his mind. The sun
was jnrt casting his rays over
the waters, and the west was
tinged with the bright streak- of ver
million and gold. Notabieath ruf
fled the surface of 'he deep—not a
sound invaded the ear—all vt as atill
r.css and serenity, except when the
last notes of the ascending skylark
sunk on the air while the feathered
songster himself was lost in distance.
He insensibly felt his spirits tran
quilized by the universal harmonv
which seemed to reign aloud—The
balm of peace descended upon his
soul—He looked upon the wander,
tags of his past days with a calm, but
meiancholy regret—It was too late to
b*. gin life anew ; and, after having
spent his youth in toil and vexation,
he now felt that a little rest was ne
cessary. When the sun had sunk
beneath the horison he laid h'.Tisclf
on the turf, and soon dropped into
a sweet, and uninterrupted slumber
In the morning he rose icfreshed.
Beneath the wide spreading branches
cf a venerable tree, he constructed
a
simple hut—Ilis meat was supplied
by the roots and the herbs of the
valley ; and the crystal spring, which
bubled by his dwelling, afforded him
a wholsomc beverage. Every evening beheld
him sinking peacefully
to repose
c . 1 his bed of leaves ; and every
dawning day saw him rise refreshed
and cheerful. In a short time he
discovered that he was happy—The
discovery astonished him. He was
insolated—an outcast—depending on
the spontaneous products of the earth
for sustenance, and only sheltered
from the inclemency of the weather,
by a cabin, over which the den of
the wild beast possessed many ad
vantages.—Under such circumstan
ces, that he could be happy, was to
him incomprehensible. After mus
ing some time on the strangeness
of the fact, he found out all the mise
ries of his pass life were to be impu
ted to himself; that they arose from
his own restlessness and ambition ;
and that the true philosqpher's stone,
which converts every thing it touches
into gold, the real source of all hu
man happiness is Contentment.
CUSTOM OF THE SAMN1TES.
The Samnites had a certain custom,
which in so small a republic, and es
pecially in their situation, must have
produced admirable effects. The
young people were all convened in
one place, and their conduct exami
ned. He that was declared the best
of the whole assembly, had leave
given him to take which girl he pleas,
ed for his wife ; the person that had
been declared second best, chose af
ter him, and so on. Admirable in
stitution !—the only recommendati
on that young men could have on this
occasion was owing to virtue, and to
the services done to their country ;
he who had the greatest share of en
dowments, chose which girl he liked
out of the nation. Love, beauty,
chastity, birth, and even wealth itself,
were all in some measure, the dow
ry. A nobler and grander recom
I pense, less chargable to a petty state,
and more capable of influencing both
| sexes, couid scarcely be imagin
ed.
j It appears by the foregoing, that
j high collars, short jackets, and sh
ov
j elccl nosed boots, had no*great influ
ence with the Samnites, and which,
j together with a few more polite
ac
| quirements, such as swallowing two
or three gills of gin or brandy be.
fore breakfast sitting over a card-ta
ble till two or three o'clock of a Sun
day morning, halfstupified with
wine,
and then reeling home to their lod.
gings, conclude the scene with dam
uing and cursing the good people of
the house for going to bed
so soon,
&c. constitutes the
greater part of
ihe recommendations of a number of
our present young men.
To Brewers.
T O be rented, und possession given the
first of tenth mo. (October) next, a
large and convenient Brewery, with every
necessary apparatus in complete order, sit
uate in the borough of Wilmington. This
Brewery is well supplied with good water,
anu convenient to a good barley country.
As it is presumed that any person inclining
to rent would first de ire to view the pre
mises, a further description is deemed un
I he terms will be reasonable :
necessary.
lor particulars apply on the premise., or to
the subscriber at Abbotts and Sheward's
brewer), Philadelphia.
Caleb Sheward.
7th mo. 19th, 1809.
tf
A quantity of good malt and casks
may be had of the present tenants.—A lot
• >f marsh, about two acres and a half, to let,
with or without the B
rewery.
VIRGINIA.
General Assembly begun and held at the Capitol
in the city o! Richmond, on Monday the se
secotid day of December, in the veär of our
Lord, one thousand eight hundred and five,
and of the Commouwealrfi, the thirtieth.
AN ACT giving further time to the piopii-tors
a
of certain lands, foifeitcd for the non-pay
ment of taxes, to redeem tli J
e same.
[Passed February 1st, 18 o6\]
Î ^R it enacted by the General assembly, That
proprietors of lands forfeited to, and
vested in the commonwealth, by the non-pay
ment of taxes, agreeably to the act, entituled
•'An^ct more effectually to provide for the
pay.
ment of taxes upon lands within this common
wealth," may redeem the same by paying
into
the treasury of this commonwealth, on or before
the first day of March, in the year eighteen hun
dred and seven, all arrears of taxes due thereon*
This act shall commence and be in force from
and after the passing thereof.
A copy from the Roll.—Tese,
J. PLEASANTS, jr. Keeper
of the Rolls.
General Assembly,begun and held at the capitol
in the city of Richmond, on Monday the fust
day ol December, in the year of nur Lord,one
thousand eight hundred and six, and of the
commonwealth the thirty-first.
AN ACT to amend an act, entitnled " An act
more effectually to provide for the payment
of taxes upon lands within this common
wealth.
[ Passed 20th January, 1807.]
F. it enacted by the General Assembly,
That, when the ta- ■ t or. any tract or par
;
cel of land shall have heretofore* remained, or
shall hereafter remain unpaid for the space of
two years, such tract or parrel of land shall be
forfeited to trie common wealth, arid shall not be
subject to location. Provided Ne.rrthelcsw,
That, the tit
: parcel ot land so as aioresaui
forfeitci
shall L
subi-ct to tm redemption ol
the former right! .. -tr.. pin per owner at any
time within three years alter such loilei'.ure shall
have accrued, upon payment of the taxes due
thereupon, according to the following rules, to
wit. That if the said taxes shall be paid
die
first year after such forfeiture shall have accrued,
there shall he paid all interest of twenty five per
centum per ar.aain on the amount of the said
taxes from the time they became due, til! paid .
If the said taxes shall be paid in the second
year alter such loileituie shall have accrued,
there shall be paid an interest of fifty per cen
tum per annum on the amount of taxes due
as
aforesaid ; if the said taxes shall be paid i
tilC
third year after suc.h forfcituresiiall have accru
ed, there shall be paid an interest of one hun
dred per centum per annum, as aforesaid ; Pro
vided also, That nothing in this act shall be
Bl »
constructed us to affect the rights of infants,
femes covert, or persons of unsound mind, until
one year after the disabilites shall have ceased,
i >1!
their paying all taxes due, with an interest there
;
on at the rate of ten per centum per annum on
the amount due as aforesaid.
All acts and parts of acts coming within the
purview of this act, are hereby repealed.
"Phis act shall commence and be in force
from and after the first day of March next.
A copy from the Roll—Teste,
J. PLEASANTS, jr. Keeper
of the Rolls.
General Assembly, begun and held at the
Cap
itol in the. city of Richmond, on Monday
the fifth day of December, in the year of our
Lord, one thousand eight hundred and ci<dit,
and of the commonwealth the thirty third.
AN ACT providing for the redemption of cer
tain lands forfeited by the non-payment of
taxes thereon.
[Passed February Gth 180;).]
B E it enacted by the General Assembly,
That all lands hereafter forfeited or hereaf
ter to be forfeited to the commonwealth for the
non-payment of taxes, by virtue of the layvs
now
in force, shall be redeemable at any time within
three years from the time when such forfei
ture hath heretofore accrued, or shall hereafter
accrue, and until the first day of March next
succeeding the expiration of the said term of
t'tnee years, oil payment of the taxes due thereon,
with an interest of ten per centum per
annum on
each year's tax, from the time when
the same
became or shall become due, until the time of
such redemption. Provided nevcrthtlcss.That all
lands heretofore forfeited, shall be redeemable
in like manner, and on payment of the like in
terest, on or before the first day of March,
in the year one thousand eight hundred and
ten.
Be it further enacted, That the Auditor of
a
public accounts shall, on or hefore the first day
of March, in the year one thousand eight hun
dred and eleven, and on or before the first day of
M uch in every year thereafter, deliver to the
collector of the taxes of each county, a list of
all such forfeited lands therein, as on the first day
of Mardi preceding, had become irredeemable,
which list shall he forthwith posted or hung up
in the most public place in the court-house of
the county.
:
Be it further enacted, That on the first Mon.
clay In August in the year one thousand eig
it
hundred and eleveven, and on the first Mond
ay
of August in every year thereafter, the collet:
tors shall proceed,by public auction, at the door
of the court-house of each county, to sell to the
highest bidders each tract of land contained
within the list of such foifeitcd lands, as were
irredeemable on the first day of March in the
preceding year for ready money.
Be it further enacted,That if at any such sale
the sunner ower or owners of any forfeited
tract of land so about to besold, or any per
son tor him, her or them, or in his, her or
their behalf, with or without any authority or
direction for that
purpose, shall appearand pav
the taxes due th
ereon.with interests asaforeaaid,
until the time of such sale, such tract shall not
be sold, but an entry of such payment shall be
made by the collector on the list aforesaid, and
a rcceipe tor such payment given to the person
making the same in the name of the form« ow
ner or owners, and thereupon such land shall br
taken to be redeemed, and the forfeiture accrue,
thereon, shall be, and the same is herebv f u ].
ly waved and remitted. J
Be it further
enacted, That it shall be the du
of the commissioner or commissioners of ttie
revenue, annually, on the first Monday in Au.
crust, to attend at the court-house of their re
spectivc counties, ar,d to take and make out a
list of the sales to be sold by the collector, spe
cifying the name or names of tire former
ow
ner or owners, the sums paid and to whom sold;
which list the commissioner or commissioners
shall forthwith transmit to the Auditor of pug.
lie accounts, who shall charge the collector with
the amount of sales appearing thereon.
Be it further enacted, That it shall be the
rtu
ty of every collector to pay annually intn i| le
public Treasury, all such sum or sums of
mo
ney as he shall receive by virtu, of this act, de
ducting a commission of rive per centum thereon,
which payment shall annually be made on the
same day on which the taxes collected in the
one year shall be payable.
Be it further enacted, That the lists of sale
so
certified and taken by the comniisioners,
or ci
thcr of them, shall be sufficient to charge the
collector or his security or securities, his, he r 0 r
their In irs, executors or odministraturs therewith, ort
any motion to be made to recover the same by
of
the auditor ot public accounts. And if airy
j colle- tor shall make default in the payment of
j any monies by him received, by virtue of this
' act, at the time hereby required, such collector,
j am j ],:■ security or securities, his, her or their
j j, e ; rgf cxr tutors or administrator«, shall be lia
:
j (,| c 1 0 all such fines, interests, damages
Und
COS ( S) an ,| |,e recovered in the same manner as m
rase of a default in the payment of the cornu, on
wealth's revenue,
Bo it further enacted. That it shall he the du
ty of evei y collector inakin,/ a sale by virtue of
tins act, to make end execute to the purchaser a
deed in fee simple loi the lands purchased, reci
tin" the cause of sale, and in every action or
.
suitat law or in equity, in which a former own
er or ow tiers of any tract of land so sold and
conveyed, his, her, or their theirs, devisee,
or
tlier person or persons claimin' tinder him, her ,]
or them, shall contest the validity of the sale
SO
made, the onus probandi shall lie on the party
so contesting.
Be it further enacted, That the commisioner ;
or commissioners lor discharging the duties
»
; (••
quired on them by this act, shall be entitled to
receive from the public treasury a com in mission
of one and an half per centum on the amount of
sales, on a warrant from the auditor of public
accounts.
11c it further enacted, That it shrdl h- the du
ty of the auditor of public accounts, at the pub
lic expense, to cause acopy of this act, and of
an act passed the first day of February, in the
year one thousand tight hundred and six,
enti
tided " An act giving fmther time to the pro
prietors of certain lands forfeited for the
non
payment of taxes, to redeem the same, and also
of an act passed on the twentieth day of J
an
uary, in the year one thousand i
eight hundred
atul seven, entiluied, " An act to amend an act
entitued " an act, more effectually to provide
for the payment of taxes upon lands within this
commonwealth," to he published for six mon.hs
successively in the present year,and lor ihr
months successively preceding
the first
of
Monday in August in the year one thousand
eight bundled and eleven, to be published in
some newspaper, of general circulation, edited
in each of the United Slates, if any such there he.
And be it further enacted, That the duties
en
joined in this act to be performed by the collec
tors, shall where the sheriff is collector, he per
formed by the high sheriff' in person, and every
purchase made, wholly or in part, by the sheriff
or his deputy, or by any other person being a
collector, or by any other person, wholly
or
part, for the use of such sheriff', deputy
m
sherift'or other person being a collector shall be
void ; and every sheriff deputy sherift'or other
person being a collector, making any purchase,
cither wholly or in part, for himself,
or procur
ing any other person to make such purchase,
wholly or in part for the use aforesaid, shall
forfeit and nay the sum of 5*,.000, to the use of
die public, tobe recovered by bill., plaint or in
formation, in any court of f tcord having
nrisdiction thereof. "
of
This act shall be in force from the
passing
thereof.
A copy from the Roll—Teste,
of
J. PLEASANTS, Jr. keeper
of the rolls.
of
April 22—lawGm
WILMINGTON COLLEGE.
r I ''HE Trustees of Wilmington College
of
.1. take pleasure in being able to announce
to the public the. revival of the Latin school
in this institution, under the immediate
it
care of Mr. Bigelow and general superin
tendence of the Rev. Dr. Read. The heal,
thy situation of Wilmington, its character
tor morality, the goodness of its market
and choice of best hoarding houses, joined
to the evidence of Mr. Bigelow's capacity
as a teacher, and the long and justly esta
blished reputation of Dr. Read as a success
lui preceptor, all concur to recommend this
seminary to the attention of Parents and
Guardians,
anxious to promote the educa
non and improvement of the youth intrust
ed to their care, especially when they are
further assured that the other departments
of the College are provided with tutors ful
ly adequate to their appointments, and of
unexceptionable moral characters
By order of the Board,
ROB! RT HAMILTON,
o
EBKNEZKR A. SMITH
3
JOHN RUMSE Y,
3,
WILLIAM Pity CE,
3
July 22, 1809.
tf
