À
in us at the endurance of them, and will eon*
duct toward the national government and its
several officers with suitable deference and mo
m deration ; that we do however despair of obtain
in g any redress of these grievances, from that
government, while its iirincijial offices are fill
as a t present ; and that our only hope is that
the slate government, by their remonstrances
and resolutions, may have more influence in
effecting this object, than the petitions and
memorials of individuals and towns.
Resolved, therefote, That a respectful ad
dress be forwarded in the name of the people
of this town to the legislature of this common
;jfr wealth, stating to them the wrongs and griev
ances we already suffer, and the fearful appre*
hensions we experience of speedily having our
calamity increased by the addition of still more
restrictive and arbitrary laws ; expressing to
iliem our approbation of the measures they
*'jhave already adopted upon this important ob
j E ct, and requesting them to take such other
immediate steps for relieving the people, either
by themselves alone, or in concert -with other
l\. commercial states, as the extraordinary cir
cnmstances of our situation may require.
-I
Also, that a committee of safety and corns
;
pondtncc be appointed to correspond with
V committees of other towns if necessity should
S't in future require it, on the best means ot re
Kieving our common country from its present
x embarrassed and distressed situation, and also
„that it be the duty of said committee to watch
over the safety of the people of this town, and
immediate alarm, so that a regular
to give
be called , whenever any infringe
'if meeting may
-,fluent of their rights shall be committed by any
.«person or persons under color and pretence of
muutkority dcivtd from any ojjiccr of the United
ï States.
States.
Also, that they lie requested to attend parti
uiarly to any injuries and insults which may
be committed or offered by any armed men
that
patroling our streets by t ight, and tlut they
make complaint against such in future for go
It
ing armed, to the terror and disturbance of the
people, and cause them to be arrested and
furnished according to Ins !
These resolutions, says tie Boston
Chronicle, cunningly incorporate the quaint
term ol " deference and moderation toward al)(
the general government f at the very mo iical
mem when they ate calling upon the state are
government to rise in opposition, and pas* »
sing resolutions to put at defiance its laws,
and to arrest its officers ! that
Let the people of the United States ex- torn
amine the conduct of the party styling of
themselves Federalists, from the adoption
oi the Constitution to the present day.—
Let them trace the projects of Federalism mu
through all their windings to the source and
object and they must be convinced that the j n
overthrow of our Republican Institutions
has always been the great object to which
they have tended. Let the citizens ever be
upon their guard: let them be watchful,
v gilanr, anfl jealous ot their political rights,
Let them carefully discriminate between
their friends and enemies ; and not cherish
in their bosoms a viper, that will give them I s ;
a fatal sting whenever his strength will
permit 1 son
- t ,
The Senate have confirmed the nomma- as
tion by the President of the United States, w
of John Q. Adams, as Minister Plenipo- •
tentiary to the Court of St. Petersburg.
A late publication makes the number of in
or
habitants on this globe to be 8;i(i mill-ons. r "
these, 226 millions are Christians, thati-q peo
- pie generally denominated Christians ; 10 mil
lions of Jews, 210 millions of Mahometans,
ami 4fi0 millions of Pagans. Of those profess
ing the Christian religion, there are 50 millions
of Protestants, 30 millions of the Greek and
Armenian Churches, and pO millions ot Ca
lf we calculate with the ancients, that
■ tholics.
a generation lasts 80 years, in that space
' 896,000,000 will be born and die ; consequent
, |y 81,760 must be dropping into eternity eve
3407 every hour, or about 36 every
rv dav
minute.
FOR THE DELAWARE GAZETTE.
It is truly laughable to hear the tale of
" French influence" raised by Federalists to
blast the well earned honor and reputation of
tiie late administration, and contrast with the
hypocritical, flattering cant, bestowed in the
form of praise on Mr. Madison, one ^of the
members of that administration, u4io,-while
occupying a seat at the council board of Mr.
Jefferson, received an ample share of federal
abuse. The charge of being a dependant ol
conjured up in the character of a
France,
Can an edi
French citizen, is not forgotten,
tor, who walks ^trough society and asserts a
claim to honesty, have so little regard to his
not to blush at assertions,
own feelings, as
which among mankind would be sufficient so
to stamp liai on his brazen front as to destroy
forever confidence in him? Can political opi
nions so change, so alter the noblest, best and
most exalted feelings df the heart, that the
man, who, with the utmost sang fluid will suf
fer the epithet of political scoundrel to pass
unnoticed, would, divested ol that locality,
like a gentleman run any one through who
would intimate aught against nis fair name?
If this is honor, this the character of Gentlemen
Federalists—I thank my God that I am a he
By whom is the
a-d low born democrat.
sad lament raigecl«? Is it by men, who, from
pure disinterested motives, anxiously watch
over the republic? .No. Is it by the war-worn
veterans, whose blood washed the plains of
Columbia in her struggle? No. Who then are
the wretches that basely hope to tarnish the
bright honors of the author df the Declaration
of Independence ? They are those, who,
" would rather be a dog and bay at the moon
than own themselves Americans." British
hirelings, your true disciples of Cobbet and
Fenno, possessing neither probity nor truth—
British incendiaries, who, like the midnight
assassin, enters the peaceful dwelling of sn
honest man at the dead hour of night dealing
death and destruction around him ; whose
ghastly grin betokens his secret delight at be
holding in one burning mass the accumulated
labour and the saving industry of his honest
and independant victims. Such are the au
thors, and such, 1 almost said the believers, of
the unfounded calumny. To enter into an
examination of the charge would lengthen this
piece beyond the limits of an ordinary commu
nication, Mr. Editor. On this subject you will
again hear from
T.
T.
Federalism all aback .—It is amusing to
look at the contortions of federalism in va
rious parts of the United States. As it is
impossible for any man of candour to find
fault with Jefferson and Madison, and as
the majority in favor of their administra
tions commues daily to increase, it is ex
pected that the leaders of federalism will
set their wits to work to conjure up some
new phantom with which to alarm the peo
ple. Previous to Mr. Jefferson's election,
religion was made the stalking-horse for
federalism to halt upon. We were told
that if Mr. JeffersoD should be chosen, re
ligion and morality would inevitably perish.
It was said that he would tear down all the
meeting-houses, execute all the priests, and
make a huge funeral pyre of all the bibles,
psalters and psalm-books in the country,
Notwithstanding these bloody-bone stories,
parson Spring is yet allowed to fulminate,
al)( ] jj ri Bramble to blow his blasts ol fana
iical fury. Nay, so entirely unrestrained
are they, that if'they were even to toast
» the Pope and the D —they would come
with impunity.-It cannot be denied
that some of our meeting-houses have been
torn ( j ()W n, hut it has been for the purpose
of building more elegant, commodious and
spacious ones in their places. When we
view our streets on Sunday ando'os rve the
mu hi U tde devoutly going to meetiug, we
cannot but confess that religion was never
j n a , T , ore flourishing condition than at pie
senft () ur tabernacles were never mote
fully attended, nor the ministers more hand
sointly supported. So much tor federal
predictions concerning Mr. Jefferson's hos
tility to religion and morality.
A little while previous to Mr. Madison's
election, we were told that he was a para
I s ; te 0 f Bonaparte, and a member of the
Legion of Honor. It was said that Madi-
son had affirmed that " France wanted mo-
ney, and we must give it to hek 1" But
as ' soun as he had completed the settlemen
i
w i t h England, he was changed, in th
• twinkling of an eye.' He was no longe
r
die fViend of Bonaparte, but the staunch
adherent of John Bull. Madison however
remains the same. He studies the inter
est of the United States and observes an
impartial conduct toward European nations.
He will not be intimidated by the cry of
French influence, however boisterous the
Pickering Junto may be in raising it : but
will continue the true American course,
regardless of the clamorous taction.
It appears, trom all the information which
can be obtained, that it was the determina
tion of the Junto to keep up this cry agains
'1 his w as the monster un
Mr. Madison.
der whose auspices they were to act. 1 hey
had begun to thrum upon this string, some
Since the late
time before he was chosen.
adjustment with England, however it has
been totally suppressed until very lately
but we now find that it is renewed in the
The people must
N. Y. Evening Post
not be surprised if they should find it a
dopted by all the minor federal papers on
the continent, (unless the Junto can find
some other scarecrow to set up) notwith
standing all their late adjulatton and flatte
ry, for inconsistency and federalism are
ol
symonymous terms, and faction must have
a
something to gnaw upon.—In the mean
time, the feds in various parts of the union
a
They know not
are lying upon their oars,
Some of
how to move, or what to say
them will warmly recommend moderation
so
and forbearance, and advise us to bury all
party distinctions, that they may catch us
when we are off our guard. Others are
overwhelming Madison with the multiplici
ty of their eulogiums, while those in a dif
ferent quarter are continuing the musty old
charge of French influence. The federal
party appear like an army that has sustain
They are all in confusion.
ed a defeat.
They have not yet received their orders
he
from the commander in chief, and are igno
the
rant of the plan intended to be pursued.
We shall patiently wait until they are or
ganized, and will then endeavor to explain
the plan of their operations. At present,
for
they are without order, discipline or me*
thod ; and may literally' be said to be upon
their beam ends .
Boston Cron,
JOHN ADAMS.
The very important disclosures Blade by this
gentleman in a series of letters lutel-y-pyblished
J.
in the Boston Patriot have justly drawn lorth
general attention, admiration and applause.—
He unravels many points and traits ni lus ad
ministration ; the intrigues of Hamilton, Pick
ering, and the rest of the British parttzails
in
his cabinet ; their endeavours to plunge us
m
to war witii France, and draw us into an alli
ance with England, his resistance, their disap
pointment, and the subsequent attack made
upon him by Alexander Hamilton—these ami
other schemes he unfolds in the most foi cible,
The ascerulen
sprightly and candid manner,
cy of the British faction had cast Mr. Adams
Thea'Unand
into the shade of unpopularity,
sedition bills drew him into odium. When we
read the perpetual struggles he made against
them : when we hear him declare he was wea
ry of office, and would have resigned it to get
rid of them—we are compelled to pity him we
once abhorred, ami to declare, that John Adame,
though greatly misled in some instances, was
always correct in his intentions.
We anticipate the most happy results from
To unmask the British faction,
these papers,
is to overthrow it. If John Adams should over
turn the F.ssex Junto, by tile patriotic deed
and discoveries, he will have earned a mans i
leum—he will attract everlasting graiitttd .
He tells us, that Washington was so torment
ed by the same party, that he was obliged to
res.gn 1 Hence, the zealous exhortations in
that great man's farewel address, to beware of
the lories, of foreign influence, See.
Bali. ling.
Several federal papers have spoken very
warmly in praise of Vir. Madison. In the
davs of Grecian degeneracy and corruption,
PtiaciON (who was at once the wisest
Statesman and best General of Athens, but
whose salutary counsels were disregarded,
as his splendid victories were unimproved)
was addressing the Athenians from the ro
strum, when, observing he was generally
applauded by the people, he turned to the
friend next him and enquired,—** Did you
observe that I committed any egregious blun
1 he same distrust which the
der ?
applause of the rotten hearted Athen ms
excited in the breast of Phocion, the ap
probation or the wrong-headed Fedetalists
ought to raise in the bosom oi Mr. Ma
dison.
Trenton True American.
We have a copy of a letter from the se
cretary of the treasury, transmitting a
statement of the balances charged on the
books of ihe treasury for advances made
prior to the oOth of June, 1808—among a
quantity of items are the following :—
Tiinoth ;j Bickering, for
merly an agent tor paying con
ting ot expences ofgovernment
(accounts suspended in the
g 8,986 67
comptroler's office.)
Timothy Pickering, for
mi n. fly secretary of state, his
account for expendiiuree (ac
counts suspended in the comp
383,945 76
troller's office.)
ICPTimothy Pickering , in re
lation to prize causes, (accounts
suspended in the comptroller's
54,003 76
office.)
In all
S446,933 19
About nine years have elapsed since the
man Timothy was kicked out of office by
Mr. Adams—his accounts are yet ' sus
pended in tho comptroller''s office and, the
probability is, will never be settled. * 1 he
American Aristides,' by an apt disposal of
documents has dou .tless placed it out of the
power of government to sue him, while t he
amount of the monies drawn from the trea
sury cannot be admitted as justly applied.
Balt. Ev. Post.
A distressing event took place at Fort Constitution,
in the l atbour of Portsmouth, N. H on the 4th in
stant. Two chests, containing about 300 wt. of gun
powder, was blown lip, which killed and wounded
14 or 15 citizens and soldiers.
INotice
of a
S 1 ereby given, that in pursuance
I
_ private Act of the General Assembly of
ihe state of Delaware passed at their last
session, application will be made to the
next Orphan's Court, to be held at New
castle on the 17th day ol next month, for
an order to sell the real estate of James
Marshall, late of the borough of Wilming
deceased, for the benefit of the devi
ton.
named in his will.
sees
SAMUEL CANBY,
Acting Executor.
Brandy wine Mills, 7th mo. 12, 1809.
GRAND LODGE OF DELAWARE.
T an election, held on the 24th day of
A
June last, the following Grand Officers
for the present year, were duly elected.
Jesse Green, Esq. Right Worshipful
Grand Master.
The lien. James Booth , Esq- Right
Worshipful Deputy Grand Master.
John Patterson, Right Worshipful S. G.
Warden.
Willard Hall, Esq. Right Worshipful
J. G. Warden.
Edward Roche, Esq. Right Worshipful
Grand Secretary'.
Isaac Stevenson . Esq. Right Worshipful
Grand Treasurer.
John Sellars, Right Worshipful Grand
Marshal.
DavidRobnet, Grand Tyler.
Published by order of the Grand Lodge.
ËDW ROCHE. G. 'ec'ry
Wilming'on, JtOv 8. 1809.
John Dixon
AVING succeeded Warners C? Tor
H
bert in the grocery business, at the
stores lately occupied by them on Market
street wharf j offers for sale <m the most
moderate terms,tor cash or the usual credit,
A General Assortment of Groceries.
And hopes by a strict attention to busi
to merit a share of the public patron
ness
age.
The Packet, Sloop Hope, ('apt.
Milner, with good accommodations for
ill ply between this Town &
passengers, w
all freight sent by
Philadelphia as usual—
said packet will be carefully attended to.
Wilmington, July 8. 1809.
_
Tzvo Dollars ,
ITH a reasonable allowance for ne
w
cessary expences, will be paid for
the apprehension and delivery to the sub
scriber of KITTY HYNSON. a light m
u
latto servant girl of about thirteen years of
age, who absconded on the evening of the
2d instant.
John Reynolds.
Wilmington, 7 mo. 8, 1809.
Farmer's Bank
Of the State oi Delaware,
July 4. 1809.
PHE Directors have this day declared a
*- dividend for the last six months, at tin:
rate of six per centum per annum on the
capital stock of this Bank, which will be
paid to the stockholders or their legal re
presentatives, at the principal Bank and
the Branches, at any time after the lJth
instant
PETER CAVF.RLY, Cash'r.
, jn; 8. 1809
Wiltningto
last Duoiistied ,
By C. & A. CONRAD & Co. Philadelphia, (&
subscriptions received by Pctek Brynberg,
Wilmington,)
Tiie American Register,
Or General Repository of History, Politics and Sci
ence—Part second for 1808, Vol. IV.
(Price Three Dollars Twenty B'ive Cents. J
rw MHS volume contains a genera! history of
I the state of Europe, during the interval
between the peace of l'ilsit and the attack of
the French emperor on ''pain—Official papets
relative to the evacuation of Portugal by the
French army—Foreign and American state pa
pers—An account of the Red River and coun
try adjacent—An account of Louisiana at the
time of its transfer to the United States—Cen
sus of Louisiana—Census of West Florida—
Census of Upper Louisiana—Census of New
Orleans—Catalogue of publications for 1S08.
Account of the proceed ngs of the society of
Friends, for promoting the improvement and
gradual civilization of the Indians—Letters
concerning the fortification-, erecting at New
York, &£. &c. &c.
The American Register is published half
yearly, was commenced in 18117, and the de
mand having been so great for it, that aie bur
few complete sets to be had, die publishers
would therefore prefer new sub-ciibeis com
mencing with this 41I1 vol (as they are now
striking oft'an additional numhe- ) which would
be no di-advantage, each volume being com
plete in itself. The price of each volume will
be demanded on delivery ; and the sub crib^r-;
liberty to decrine at any time.
are at
Also, ibr -ale by 'P. B. tile works of Fnh, •
Ames, compiled by a number of his friends, to
which a e prefixed" notices of 1rs life and churae
Published at Boston.
ter.
W Im ngton, [ul y 8, U' 9.______
To the Electors ol i\ew-Castie
County.
Fellow-Citizens ,
Having been selected by the Repub
Lean interest oi this County* for the office
of Sheriff, permit me respectfully to sofit-iv
support for that office ät the Genera.
your
Election in October next.
In: PERKINS
if
Ircek, June 3.1809.
M.tsman
