__ X!i£ (BâïtUz
Wilmington , 'July 19,
18 JG.
CAMP MEETINGS.
A general camp meeting will commence
on Thursday the 27th inst. near the town of
Smyrna, in Kenty county, Delaware, and
hold about six days.
Also, another general camp meeting will
be held on Bohemia Manor, in Cecil coun
ty, Maryland, on the land of l.ichard Tuts
sett, Esq. to commence the 9th of August
next, and continue as long as it may appear
practicable.
A third genera camp meeting will be
held at the head of Wye river, in Queen
Ann countv, Maryland, to commence on
the 24-th of August next, to continue six
days.
FOR THE DELAWARE GAZETTE.
MILITIA.
The organization of the Militia of Delaware
seems, in many respects, to lie neglected by
the commander in chief.
It' its well known that there are two lull
troops of horse in the 1st Brigade, and conse
quently are hy law entitled to a major, adjutant
and quarter master. The two troops have
been thus full for more than a year past and as
yet no such appointments have been made.—
The militia law authorises the Governor to
commission ilie officers, and he ought to com
pleat tiie organization (de novo) as fast as the
law enjoins it on him. Great dissatisfaction is
discoverable for want of a major of cavalry, and
tiie commander of each troop is jealous of the
other gelling tiie appointment. 1 must con
fess, were 1 the commander of the 1st troop,
and the appointment was given to tiie
com
mander of the 2d troop ov any other person, 1
Be tiffs as it may, the
would certainly resign.
appointment ought to be made, if neither ol
Neither their selfish notions, nor
them gets it.
the contending interests oi others ought to re
tard the system being rendered com pleat,
their present state they exercise separately, and
consequently there is no stimulus lor them to
excel in munutuvering. Indeed it lias been
remarked by judges, that if the commanders
have any knowledge of tactics, they display
none, except it consists in galloping in Indian
file. T a suitable character was appointed to
Charged particularly with the safety of the
Rhenish confederation, lie is
•arned to be on
his guard ; he will call out his contingent, and
■will himself march his trot»j>s from the interior
towards the Rhine,
On all sides we shall be
under arms.
In such a stat-of things a spark
will suffice to produce a conflagration.
Does Austria seriously wish for war? What
advantage dots she hope fro
m it ? We are sure
that she can expect no co-operation from Russia,
She will derive but indifferent benefit from En
gland. She will be
ithout an ally upon thp
continent. If she docs not want war, why this
excessive expettee which wastes het finances, de
stroys her banker.», and annihilates the credit of
her paper money i Why impede the prosperity
of the inteiior which is just reviving? Why
give us any uneasiness, alarm Europe with the
dread of a renewal of the war, and alienate from
her the Emperor who will be less disposed to let
her co-operate in the arrangements of Europe?
Surely, she will not reproach us, if wc take a
hostile and menacing attitude; it is a barrier that
Austria will raise between Trance and herself,
since trance has given every proof of a desire to
live with her in the most perfect harmony.
" You, sir, value the preservation of that har
mony, and you know that it is not less the ob
ject of my wishes,
Do all
you can, that our
wishes may be gratified :
enlighten your gov
eminent as to our disposition*, which surely af.
tord no cause for apprehensions ; ami as to the
effects of those measures,
hich your govern
men is advised to adopt,
Thosc who advise
you to adopt them are not your true founds:
foes to the repose of Europe, they would plunge
their country into a long train of evils. J hope
that you will be able to prevent them.
" i should esteem myself very happv. should
this letter, which I write to you with a freedom,
authorised by our particular relations, have the
salutary effect of preserving between our govern
ments that happy concord, which their own in
terests, not less than tiie interests of Europe, and
of h Uinanity, piescribe.
" Accept, Sec."
" I*. S. Should you, sir, have any doubts of
tiie truth of tiie fee* stated in this letter, I might
appeal, not only to an immense number of tiie
letters of our merchants, which till convey ap
prehensions oi seeing Austria engage in
war,
bet the official papers published by your gov
Tor example, I refer you to the pro
ernment.
clamation circulated at Trieste by the archduke
John
and me count dc S.iurau, in which it was
s ii<l to the inhabitant* of Trieste, that, although
they were not bound by the laws, to co ol them
selves in the militia, it was nevertheless their
duty, as
good subjects, to obey the call of their
, when individual and public safely,
_ sovere
H as the tranquility of the hereditary Hates,
as w
required it ; and this appeal was made in the
same act, in which they were Called on to recol
lect the devotton and fidelity they had often ex
hibited on former occasions. The remainder of
tins ai tic le, related to such measures lor disci
piiue and military exercises, as
a cour.tiy in
va fed would prescribe to its inhabitants as tiie
only means of their defence."
( To he concluded. J
the office, it is presumable the brigadier would 1
soon order a battalion i iceting, when the o3i- I
cerr, would have an opportunity (which they
have never yet bad) of showing their capubi
lity ol commanding and of receiving instruc
tion. SYSTEM.
COMMUNICATION',
Mr, Jones, —Please to insert in vnur paper
the following questions : 1 st. Docs not the 8 th
section of the Militia law, passed at Dover in
August, 1 sop, provide tint, when there are two
or more troops of Light Horse attached to cacli
brigade, they shall be entitled to a Major, Ad
jutant and Quarter Master ?
2d. lias not the said law, in the 6th section,
enjoined it a duty on the Governor to commis
sion all officers of the Militia, to vit, the Maj
or
Genera , Brigadiers, Quarter Master Gene
rals, Lieutenant Colonels, Major. », Captains,
Lieutenants, Ensigns and Cornets,
and dial
the field officers, shall appoint their respective
Regimental Staffs ?
t!d Is there not two troops of horse attach
ed to tiie first brigade of Delaware Miiitiu ?
4tli lias the Governor complied with the
6th and 8th sections of the aforesaid law ?
Slit, H hy is „o useful a corps as the i
it
I lotse so part.ally organized ?
A Trooper.
Al-.smjs tiie same. —The rule of the tories of
'75, 44 divide unit conquer ," lias been continued
to the present day. Tiie English faction, des
pairing of ever being able to gain an ascendancy
in our national affairs by fair means, have de
termined to attempt it lay deception and fraud.
With this object in view, they are making every
effort to create a division among tiie Republi
cans, and to make them believe that Mr. Madi
son is their man. This paltry artifice is easily
detected, and will be indignantly spurned by
the Repuhl cans. They duly estimate the at
tempts of tiie Essex Junto to divide them, and
will continue to act, as they always have done,
in direct opposition to their wishes.
If Washington were now living, he would
denounce tiffs faction in terms as unequivocal
as President Adams has done. Surrounded and
embarrassed liy the emissaries of the British
Junto, he bad a fair opportunity of discovering
their plans, and of becoming acquainted with
their ruinous intentions. Under this impression
lie wrote his farewell address to the people of
America, to warn them against " all combina
tions of men to counteract andjatve the "regular
deliberation of Congress ;" against those who
should endeatraur to excite heart burnings and
jealousies among the people, and to separate
the states. In short, against the enemies ol
America and republicanism, the friends of
England and monarchy. Let every American
citizen who does not possess tiie farewell ad
dress of Washington, imined ."cly purchase
i .—For it Was written for the years 1803. 9, 10
Bast. Citron.
and 11.
NAUSCOFY,
Or the Ait of discovering Ships at a great distant -,
from Band.
[From the Naval Chronicle.j
Nauscopy is the art of discovering the ap
proach of ships, in the neighbourhood of lands,
at a considerable distance.
This knowledge is not derived either from the
undulation of waves, or from the subtility of
sight ; but merely from observation of the ho
rizon, which discovers signs indicating the
proximity of large objects. At the approxima
tion of a ship towards tiie land, or towards ano
ther ship, theie appears in tiie atmosphere a
meteor of a particular nature, which, with a
little attention, is visible to any person.
Mr. Bottineau (a native of the island of Bour
bon) la « this discovery before M. de Castries,
Amonv tiie numerous new publications daily
issuing from the American press, is it not
time to look for a comnietc e liiioa of the va
at
I
lium tracts of Mr. ,/<//<
f Their sterliii
me
fit entitles them to collection and we are per
suaded that the publisher who undertook an
to
edition would be amply rewarded by the dispo
sition of a large impression. There are thou
m
sands of Americans who would be highly gra
tified in preserving on their shelves this re
membrance of a man to whom they feel so ar
dent a respect and gratitude. We recommend
tiffs suggestion to our enterprising booksellers,
with the hope that if adopted, tiie edition of
Mr. Jefferson's works will be printed with be
coming elegance.
We entertain another and more important
hope, in winch, we have no doubt, we shall
be joined universally by our fellow-citizen».—
This is, that Mr. Jefferson will lie his own bi
ographer, and bequeath to tiie world a faithful
record of the distinguished events in which he
has borne so illustrious a part. No one can
discharge tiffs duty so ably as himself; and,
next to the services he lias rendered, must be
tiie value of exhibiting them, together with
the several incidents to wlvch they relate, or
with which they are connected, in such an un
questionable shape as shall dispel all miscon
ception respecting them. Such a legacy would
embrace the annals of bis country, and no in
considerable portion of the history ol the ci
vilized world It would expose the true mo
tives of the revolution, and the beneficent views
of the advocates of liberty, in a just point of
light.
Have not the friends of liberty a right to ex
pect from Mr. Jefferson such a bequest? His
eminent literary attainments, bis full retention
of mental faculties, and bis leisure, all qualify
him for the discharge of the duty. Nat. Intel.
in I f 84• The minister sent him hack to the ;
island to continue his observations there, under 1
the inspection and superimendance of the gov- j
ernmem. j
Mr. Bottineau engaged, that not r single ship
should arrive at the i-tand without his having
sent information of it several day* before.
'An exact register of his communications was
hept in the secretary's office. AU his reports
compared with the ships' books as soon as
wtre
they arrived, to
•'nether the variations of
weather, calms which retarded them, &c. Sec.
were such a» agreed with his reports.
It must be observed, that when his reports
were made, the watchmen, stationed on the
mountains, could not perceive any appearance
oi slops; lor M. Bottineau announced their ap
proach when they were more than a hundred
miles distant.
from the authenticated journal of his reports,
which had been published, it appears that he
was wonderfully accurate. Within eight months,
and in sixty two reports, he announced the ar
riva! of one hundred and fifty ships of different
descriptions.
Of the tint there can be no reasonable doubt,
because every method was ado
ptc.l to prevent
deception, and his informations weie not only
registered, as soon as they were made in the gov
ernment office, but were also pubhckly known
over tlie whole island. The officers of govern
ment, moreover, were far fioin being partial to
M. l'ottinemi ; on the conti ary, they were dis
pleased with him for obstinately refusing to sell
litem lus secret, which they wanted to purchase
at a high price, so that he could v xpect no fa
vour from their representations. Tiuth, how
ever, obliged them to give abundant testimony
to the reality of his extraordinary talent, in then
letter to tiie Trench minister, which is published
m a " Memoire sur hl hau, cope, pur M. Botti
neau."
neau."
The following are two of the reports extract
ed from tiffs memoir :
" On the doth cf August 1784, I dt covered
some vessels at the distance of to
Uys sail from
tile island.
j
On tiie following day* me number
liiplicd considerably tu my sight. This in
mu
duced
me to semi information of many vessels;
but though they were only four days distance, 1
nevertheless staled in my report, that no settled
time could be fixed on lor tiieir arrival, as they
detained by a calm, On the 25th the calm
were
s so complete) as to make me think, for a
u r a
few hours, that the fleet had disappeared, and
gone to some other place. 1 soon after perceived
again the presence of tue fleet, by the revived
It was still in the same state of inaction.
signs.
nt which 1 sent information. From the 20th of
August to tiie I Oi ii of September, 1 did not cease
■o announce in my reports, the continuation of
tiie calm. On the lJtii 1 sent word that tiie
fleet was no longer her lined, and that it would
arrive at the island within forty-eight hours.—
Accordingly, to the surprise of tue whole '.Hand,
M. ile Regnier's fleet arrived at Pott Loud a
on
the 15th.
Tiie general astomsment wttsgieatly
increased, when u was known that this fleet had
been becalmed since the 20th of August, near
Rodriguez islands, which was precisely tiie dis
tance i pointed out in my reports."
" 1 soon had another opportunity of shewing
tl. u certainty of my observations. A few days
before the arrival of M. de R egnier's fleet, I an
nounced the appearance of another fleet, which
became perceptible to me. This created a great
deal ot uneasiness, because a» no
r Trenr.li
fleet was expected, that which 1 discovered might
lie English siiips.—I was ordered to repeat my
observations with accuracy. 1 clearly perceived
tiie passage of several siiips, and declared they
were not hound for
r island, but were taking
another course. In
consequence oi' this informa
tion, tiie N Jade frigate and the Duc de Chartres
cutter were suddenly dispatched to M. da Sut
frein. The cutter actually saw and avoided the
English fleet, in the ninth degree, but untortu
nalely did not fir.d M. dc Sutilein in tiie bay of
Trincomalee. 'The report of the cutter effectu
ally convinced the incredulous of the reality of
my discovery."
1 he last circumstance, of dispatching tiie fri
gate and cutter, plainly shews the confidence
which the Trench officers must have put in the
information of M. Bottineau.—It shews also that
he deserves their confidence.
Conjectures respe cting the Pht noiniuon on which the
preceding observations vue vi undid.
The waters of tiie oeean form an immense
gulf in which substances of all kinds are swal
lowed up.
The innumerable
Ititudc of animals, fish,
birds, vegetable and mineral productions, wnicli
decay, and are decomposed in that vast basin,
produce a fermentation abounding in spirits,
salts, oil, sulphur, &c. &:c. The existence of
these is sufficiently apparent by the disagreeable
smell and flavour of sea-water, which can only
be rendered drinkable by distillation, and by
the evaporation of those heterogeneous particles
which infect it.
The spirits, intimately united to the sea-wa
ters, continue undisturbed as long as those wa
ters remain in a state of tranquility ; or, at least,
they experience only an internal agitation, which
is siiglitiy manifested externally.
But when tiie waters of the sea are set into
motion by storms, or by tiie introduction of an
active mass which rides upon tiieir surface, with
violence and rapidity, the volatile vapors con
tained in the bosom of the sea escape, and rise
up a fine mist, which forms an atmosphere round
the vessel.
This atmosphere advances with tiie vessel, and
i« increased every moment by fresh emanations
tiring from the bottom of the water.
These emanations appear like so many small
clouds, which, joining rarb other, form a bind
of sheet projecting forward,"one extremity of
which touches the ship, whilst the other ad
vannes in the sea to a considerable distance,
But this train of vapors is not vl-ible to the
si ht; it escapes observation by the trat, spa ren
c.y of its particles, and is confounded with other
fluids which compose the atmosphere,
But as soon as the vessel arrivts within a cir
cumfiertnee wiicic it meets with other hnnioge
nous vapors, such as those which escape from
land, this sheet, which till that time had been
so limpid and subtile, is suddenly seen to acquire
consistence and colour, by the mixture of the
two opposite columns.
This clung? begins at the prolonged extremi
ties, which by their contact arc united, and ac
quire a coloui and strength ; afterward», in pro
portion to the progression of the vessel, the me
tamorphosis increases and reaches the centre ; at
last the phenomenon becomes the more manifest,
and the ship makes its app
ranee.
MECHANISM.
A German Mechanic, of tiie narre ol
M tri, 2 ), is now exhibiting st Paris, an au
tomaton of a singular construction. The
figure exhibits a Trumpeter in the uniform»
of the Band of the Trench Imperial Guuirls,
and at the word of command raises the
Trumpet to its mouth and plays some ex
quisite pieces of marital music. The whole
of the mechanism is contained in the chest
of tiie automaton ; us feet rest upon a board
to which castors are affixed, and the pro
prietor moves it from place to place, in the
exhibition room, to shew tha: there is no
communication with any other apartment.
In this respect it is superior to the celebra
ted automaton fiute-pl.tyer of M. Vatican
son, which or.re made so much noise in
Eut ope: this latter figure reclined against
a wall, behind which some complicated ma
j chiner}' was supposed to be placed,
l he
most wonderful part of M. Mxelr.i's auto
maton, is the effect produced by the lips of
the figure upon the trumpet, which are
made to exhibit all the delicacy of touch
peculiar to the lips of the, human body. No
jarring or cracking sound of machiner'/ is
to be heard, although the ear be applied
close to the body of the automaton nor cau
any musical sound be emitted unless when
the trumpet is applied to the mouth. At
the conclusion of the exhibition 'I. Mael*
zi sits down to a piano forte, and his trum
peter performs ao accompaniment to seve
ral pieces of music with all the precision of
a first rate performer. This artist bas here
tofore distinguished himself by several irai»
provements ou musical instruments.
To Brewers.
'anted, and possession given the
first of tenth mo. (October) next, a
large and convenient Brewery, with to cry
necessary apparatus in complete order, sit
uate in the borough of Wilmington, This
Brewery is well supplied with good water,
and convenient to a good barley country.
As it is presumed that any person inclining
to rent v. ould first desire to view the pre
mises, a fünfter description is deemed un
necessary. The terms will be reasonable i
for particulars apply on the premises, or to
the subscriber at Abbotts and Sheward'a
brewery, Philadelphia.
Caleb Sheward.
7th mo. 19th, 1809.
tf
JET* A quantity of good malt and casks
may be had of the present tenants.-—A lot
of marsh, about two acres and a halt, to let,
with or without the Brewery.
For Sale*
( New-Castle Count;/ in the State of Delaware, tss . )
V Virtue of an Order of the Orphan's
Court for the said County of Xew-Castie,
wnl lie exposed to saie, at Public Vendue,
on
Monday, the 7th day of August next, at 2
o'clock in the afternoon, at the house of Mrs,
Dlaunah Riddle, in the village of St. George,
and the county aforesaid, a certain Plantation of
Tract of Land situate in St. George's hundred,
in the
said county, on the main road leading
from the Trap to the village of St. George,
with sundry valuable improvements, containing
two hundred acres of arable land and fifty of
woodland (except five acres of woodland on tiie
north suie of said plantation and immediately
adjoining a farm devised to Thomas M'Donuugtl
by John L.aioux, deceased) being a pint of the
real estate of Patrick M'Donough, deceased,
and to be sold for the payment of his debts. At
tendance will be given, and the terms of »ale
made known, at I lie tone and place ns aforesaid,
hy Sarah M'Donough and Leonard Vaudenrift,
Administrators of tiie said deceased, or their At
torney.
By order of the Orphan« Court,
JOHN VYILEY, Ci.ekk.
Ncw-Castlc, July 15, ISQp,
[N T . B. The aiiove Plantation contain«, a large
brick dwelling bouse, a barn, and other cut
houses. A pair of the improved land is encic eii
with a hedge fence, and the woodland well tim
bered.]
SARAH M DONOUGH.
