descending lodged at the top, which caused
it to slide from the stump, an 1 completely
wedged him between the falling tree and
another. In this digressing situation his
loud cries rent the, air, which were heard
at several miles distance, but were not re
cognized as signals of distress. During
his confinement, nearly four hours, he had
the presence of mind to fix something to
the neck of his faithful dog , on which he
put some blood. The dog went home, but
his badge was not perceived until Mr. S.
alarmed at his son's long absence, set out
for the woods, when the dog evinced evi
dent demonstrations of joy by alternately
running before, returning and fawning.
When he was discovered by his father he
was speechless. He was immediately lib
erated. and after procuring a sleigh remo
ved borne. His 'high bone was much frac
tured—hopes are entertained of recovery.
Eagle .
PH1UDELMIIA, MAI1CH 12.
Yesterday arrived soh'r Satellite, St .bury, 19
days from St. Barts, wlm in forms tint two or
three days befoic he saded, the French privateer
seb'r Superior put into that bland bom a cruize,
and it was said she h id on hoard upwards ol
180,000 dolls.it) specie, ami to the same amount
in dry goods, which she had taken liota vesicls
which she had captured. j
She sent in two days before her,a Spanish scli'r
which she had taken, loaded w ith dry goods to
a large amount.
The Superior was sold immediately after her
• arrival, and hoisted the Swecdhh iDg- I apt.
Seabury left there tire brig St. Croix, Ansdalc,
ready to take in for this port, and above a h
un
dred vessels belonging tothcUnitcd States. Flour
from 11 to 13 dollars in demand.
to ihr
i'y the above arrival Antigua papers
9th i. ut. are received, from one of which the
f. .lowing London articles have been extracted,
which bespeak a very favorable sent iment in re
paid to our relations with England :
London, Jan. 17.—Lord Wellesley and Mr.
Pinkney have had srvcral confeicnces on the
subject of the pen .tig differences with Ameri
ca, and their di eussions lad assumed the most
amicable aspftt, when the late dispatches from
Paris suspended their intercourse, by creating
occasion for Mr. Pinkney to apply to his Gov
ernment for fresh instructions.
Jan. 20. The presentation of Mrs. Pinkney
at Court yesterday, of all the days in the year, is
looked upon as a favorable augury of the amica
ble views of the American minister in regatd to
the pending négociation between this country
and the U. States, which is still actively carried
an between the marquis Wcllcsly and Mr. P.
It is said that government love resolved to
send out a new mini'ter to the United Stater ;
and that this measure has been adopted through
"the active influence of 'he Marquis Wellesley.
The report of « treaty between France and Ame
rica being actually concluded at Paris, is not be
lieved ; Out, whether it is concluded or not.
common sense requires that we should forthwith
send a minister to America, as some one
expected theie to replace Mr. Jackson.
expected theie to replace Mr. Jackson.
FRENCH PRISONS.
Extract of a let. er from Captain William
Edw ards, oj the brig Juno of Norfolk
to his owner, dated
Rochelle Prison, Dee. 8,1809.
*Mv good Sir,
" I am sorry to inform you that this
place and the Isle of Rhe have been mv a
bode since the 7th September, 1808. When
I arrived in the Juno off St. Martins, Isle
Rhe, to obtain a Pilot for Cbarunte where
I was bound for a cargo of Brandy, I was
interrogated with all mv crew, three of
which informed the officers at the Custom
House that the Juno was from England, &
t-.u: I had a licence on board, which they
'carda British man of war hail and de
mand of me the day before my arrival off
St. Martins. Those three villains were
promised one third of the snip previous to
thN, which in.si have had great weight wi'h
jtailors. The remainder of lit . crew were
kept iu pri°-,u until the fiae of 550 lrancs
Ttere paid for each of them by a h-use in
Bordeaux ; the only one that remal s with
me is the boy Peter Bacon. The Juno
was sold lor 17.000 francs in Avgust and
still remains here ; she is owned by a house
in Bordeaux.
" I have wrote several times to general
Armstrong, who has been good enough to
There were 18 sail oi Arne
answer me.
ri.-.m* seized at the ti tie the Juno was, and
all the masters got away except three of us,
remain here close enough.
Wl
Copy fa letter from Genera i. Armstrong,
tô Captain William Edwards.
"SIR,
11 '1 he dav I received vour letter of the
20th October, I saw a French gentleman
who knew your case, and took nn interest
in it, and who engaged to nnv your fine so
tu').-! as the payment thereof should he suf
ficient to discharge you from prison. The
advice 1 trave him, and which I now repeat
to yourself is to senti a memoir to me sta
ting vour long confinement, and offering to
pay 'ht fine imposed upon you, on condi
tion of your immediate liberation ; this me
mr.tr 1 will send to the minister of foreign
affairs, anti endeavour to engage him to
lay it before his majesty. If Captains
Wilson, Shadwick, or any others Were to
join you in this memoir, the effect might
be better.
1 am Sir,
Your obebient servant.
JOHN ARMSTRONG.
3Ct )t <Bâ$tUz.
Wilmington , March 3 1 , 1810.
nMvwiii ' A nn^ f* —
NEW HAMPSHIRE ELECTION.
Of the 5 councillors, 3 arc republican and 2 feds.—
Of the senators 7 arc republican 3 feds and 2 undeci
ded. Andin the house of representatives a republican
majority of about 20 h elected. Well done—could
not be better.
A Barbadocs paper of the 20th Jan says :—" We
have much satisfaction in finding that by the active
and zealous exertions of our cruG.ers, now carried ou
against the enemy, he no longer finds a free ingress
und egre ss in these seas. On the 12th inst. his ma
jesty's ship Scorpion, capt Stanfull, (which for some
time, with the Cygnet and Suparicure had been watch,
ing her) had the good fortune to encounter the Oreste
(imperial brig) that had that night made a dash out
of Basiaterre, Guadaloupe, bound to France, and after
a close action of two hours compelled her strike.—
The Oreste made a stubborn defence when she found
she could not escape by superiority of «ailing, having
run the Scorpion as far as Ancfc le Barque ; and had
2 men killed and 10 wounded before she struek, and
her hull and rigging much cut up, by the precision and
judgment of our fire. She is a remarkable fine vessel,
and had on board the principal officers of the two fri
grates lately burnt at Guada'oupe, and a colonial ofli*
cer of rank of the island. She had carried out 30
soldiers and some provisions from Bayonne to Guada
loupe, and was on her return with a quantity of coffee.
The Scorpion had two men wounded, her main yard
shot through, and rigging much cut up. They were
a fair match as to strength and equipment, but the
odds greatly in our favor when we lake country and
national character in the scale ; Scorpion carries six
teen 32 pound carronades, two long 6's and 105 men ;
L'Orieste, sixteen 24 pound carronades, two long 12*s
and 110 men, exclusive of 10 extra oificers,
passen
gers. She is sent to Martinique, and the Scorpion i
refitting there."
ECONOMY OF ROYALTY
The Washington, (Ken.) •* Dove," furnishes some
curious calculations on the economy of the British
government—among others, the following :
" 1 he salary nf the king is one million sterling,
per annum, which is four millions four hundred ami
forty four thousand four hundred and forty four dol
lars ! ! 1~7 times as the president's and 19,344 dollars
over. The present gracious sovereign, long life
to
him f has reigned 50 years.
His income during that
time has only amounted to t;vo hundred and twenty
two millions two hundred and twenty two thousand
two hundred dollars !! ! exclusive of frequent grants
ol parliament to enable him to pay his debts ; as bis
salary was not sufficient.
" This salary of 50 years, would he sufficient to pay
the president's from the creation of the world, (allow
iowing it to be 5814 years,] to th present time, and
,307 2 years to come."
Extract of a letter fro:« Doctor Barton of Philadel
phia, to a gentleman of Frederick county, Virginia,
dated, March 15, 1810.
** The remains of four vast cities have been disco*
vered in the Spanish province of Campeachy,* and
the vicinity. They arc of stone beautifully construct*
ed and adorned with admirable sculptures, of which
1 have just seen manuscript engravings. The figures
plainly shew that those things w
not constructed by
any artists of Europe ; the physiognomy shows plain
ly a civilized raçç of Ameriuau Indians certainly more
improved than: the Mexicans or Peruvians. This
discovery strongly confirms triy opinion of the great
antiquity of American i of the ancient state of
un.
provement of its inhabitants, 8cc.
But perhaps, I
shall be able at no very distant period, to give you
much more satisfactory information
the subject.''
* The province of Campeachy lies upon the south
ern coast of the Gulph of Mexico, or more properly,
upon the Jay of Campeachy, in latitude about 20 deg.
N. and 300 miles E. of La Vera Cruz.
The following is stated to be from official authority.
The quantity of gold and silver coined in Mexico
alone for one year, ending the 1st of January 1810 —
'this coinage all bears the new stamp of Ferdinand
In Gold
1 464,118
Silver
24,708,164
Total
26,172,982 dollars.
Suicide —We understand that a letter has been
received m Washington from Mr. Gideon Fitz of
Oppelotisns, O. T. by Thomas H. Williams, Esq.
mentioning the death of Col. John Thompson, judge
of the supreme court, register to the land office* Sac.
He shot himself through the head with a pistol, abgut
the last of the preceding month. The circumstances
which occasioned this rash and precipitate conduct are
variously reported. It is curious though, that it took
place the very day on which his son was married,
to
and within hearing of the parties.
Eatrhez C/iroi.icle.
Di KU—At Fell • I
F
It.-uory,
if h
$5tb inst, in tlir S.'iti v>.
//», Esq. his S wert, -y|t. ni ji-sty's vice-consul lot
the «»ate of Maryland. A truly worthy man.
Thursdav
-In Norfolk, Virginia, on
night the 1/ in'.t. at Fort Nelson, Major John
SauuUi-r. t, of the corps of artillerist» and engineers
of the U S. army,ami comm in laut at that post.
—— • ■ In Ch.irlc-.fon
s. c.
the 11th inst.
Brier limit, Esq. adjutant general of the militia
of the state of New Jctsev. Gen. Hunt had
repaired to Charleston for the. recovery of his
health; hut paid the. debt of nature at an early
I'-nod. to the great reg r et of all his acquaintance.
His rimerai tous distinguished lay the most rt
spertful m litary honors, and attended by de
tachments from the cavalry, altillery ami infantry
of the cltv, who paid the las: tiiouteof a soldier
to the wvt'-iv officer of a sister state.
P. S. Jiy this Day's Mail.
CONGRESS U. ft.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Wednesday March 28.
First Meridian for the U. States.
Mr. Pitkin from the committee to
whom was committed the memorial
of William Lambert, made a report
concluding with the following resolu
tion:
.Resolved, Th?.t it is expedient to
make provision by law authorising
the president of the U. S. to cause
the longitude of the city of Washing
ton, from the observatory at Green
wich, in England, to be ascertained
with the greatest degree of accuracy,
and also authorising him, for that pur
pose, to procure the necessary astron
omical instruments.
Mr. P. said as he was desirous that
a bill should pass on the subject at
this session, he did not move a refer
ence of the report to a committee of
the whole, but moved that it lie on
the table, to give gentlemen time to
consider it before he asked a decision
on it.
The report was accordingly order
ed to lie on the table.
GUNBOATS.
Mr. Van Dyke said it would be re
collected that at the first session of
the tenth congress a law had been pas
sed authorising to purchase or em
sed authorising to purchase or em
ployment of a number of gun-boats,
for which purpose a sum of upwards
ol 800,000 dollars had been appro
priated, It appeared from a report of
the secretary of the navy that the pre
sent annual expence of keeping them
in ordinary was 64,000 dollars. In
another report from the secretary of
the navy, made to a committee of the
senate, it appeared that a number of
those gun-boats had been built of
green materials, and if suffered to re
main in service for a year would
scarcely be worth the expence of re
pairing them. Those facts having
been ascertained, an attempt was made
(unsuccessfully,) at the last session to
enquire whether it would not be pru
dent to authorise the president to sell
the gun-boats or a part of them.—
Mr. Van Dyke said it was now about
the close of the session, and for any
thing he had yet ascertained, he was
not induced to suppose that the whole
number of gun-boats would be neces
sary in any event. If peace was to
result, they would be unquestionably
unnecessary; if war, and the opinion
of the secretary of the navy was to be
confided in, in all probability a num
ber of them would be found unfit to
be employed in the public Service.*—
In every' view of the subject, Mr.
Van Dyke said it appeared proper to
him that an enquiry should be made.
He moved the following resolution,
which he said he presumed would not
be objected to by any gentleman in
the house :
" Resolved, That the committee
on our naval establishment be instruc
ted to enquire into the expediency of
authorising the president of the Uni
ted States to sell such of the gun-boats
belonging to the United States as he
may judge unfit or unnecessary to be
employed in the public service.",
The resolution was agre ed t o.__
Horse Bills,
Struck off at an hour'» notice, at the Office of this
Ga«tt«. ij^-Elegant Horae figures.
PlcUSD ! ■> XS
The co-p.ti !•)?«.;
.bip of A.vrr ■
•te
being dissolved l>y
mi the
nutti';! corn
instant—all persons indebted to the said ctJn-vft
arc requested to make i-nmedfute payment, a
those having demands will please t > present Ilf
for seulement to either of the auh«m ibers.
A ARON PAUL,SON.
PETER PAULSON.
A AÎ10N PAULSON,
Having taken the remaining stopiC ofih-tl.tr
concern, has now on hand and intends keeping .
general assortment of dry goods, suitable for tir-
present arid approaching beason, which be w I
sell on low ter ms. He returns thanks to I.
Iriends and the |)ublic for their past f»vors an
solicits a continuance of their custom.
Wilmington, March 30,1310.
BREWING.
'"pHE, nhscriber having commented Brewiiu'
A foi the season, begs leave to
l.fonn
ami Country Customer.- that he has
lown
STRONG Sr TABLE BEE 11 of an excellent
quality constantly on hand, which he will dis
pose of at the usual prices. All orders will be
promptly attended to.
Joseph B. Shipley,
Wihn'nurtou, No ». 1.180«.
John Dixon
AVING succeeded Warners- fc? Ter.
H
bert in the grocery business, at lit?
.tores lately occupied by them on Markei
itrefct wharf ; offers for sale on the most,
moderate terms.for cash or the usual credit,
A General Assortment oj Groceries.
And hopes by a strict attention to br.si.
ness, to merit a share of the public patron
age.
The Packet, Sloop Hope, Cap'.
Milner, with good accommodations for
passengers, will ply between this Town •>.
Philadelphia.as usual—all freight sent by
said packet will be carefully attended to.
Wilmington, July 8, 1809.
Patent Washing Machine
T HE subscriber respectfully informs 1;
friends and the public in general, that 1.
has, some time ago, purchased an exclusive right
of making and vending Valent Washing Machines
throughout the hundreds of Brandywine and
Christiana, in Ncw-Castle county, a number if'
which machines he has already made, which 1
have been tried by divers persons and highly ap
proved of, as they save a great part of the labor r
of washing in the usual way , ami are less iajtta j-.
otis to clothes. He Will continue to "make
have a supply of them on hand, which he v/j'p
sell on reasonable terms to such as favour k
int
with their custom ; and will also sell to ants , )p ,
, fight to make and use them
sun a
the hundreds aforesaid.
ABRAM GEST.
Wilmington, Jan. 2!, 1 809.
tf
Matthew Kwaii
TNFOEVÏS his ft lends and the r
public
that he hïs opened a Dry Good Sto
re
the west side of Market Street, next door
below *.he
corner of Second Street; w!k:,
he offers for sale a handsome assortment oB
easonuble goods on moderate terms
Wilmington, Juile 17, 1809.
To Paper-Makers,
W ANTED, apitist the first of April n-v,
a paper-maker with a small family y
steady workman may be accommodate wi I, ,
good house and garden, and will receive the h- ...
est wages.
Horatio G. Garrett.
February 24.
tf
Jo he Let ,
A ND pofsef. ion given on the 25 th of Mardi
next ensuing, a large and commod ;
two story brick house, fi [uate d
on tlie
-t
*" ,e of King-street, at present occupied.. t,y
jAlrs. Oldham, together with astable âjiu car*
riage-house. For terms apply
to
WILLIAM RANKIN*
Wilmington December 30th, 1 80 «). _tf.
Dissolution of Partnersh
HE partnership of Brai/uu -V Rice is a-'
T
dissolved by muttial consent,
All per..-.-.-,
luving demands against said firm
are reqne-;,
to present them ; and those indebted arc tie- ,. 1
to make payment to either of the subscribe!,;.
Thomas Bradun,
Washington Rice .
Wilmington, Feb. 20,1810. m
WASHINGTON RICE,
B ESPECTFULLY informs the ok!
, turners of Bradup£c Rice, and the r
generally, that he has purchased the stork c '
said firm, and will continue the Grower, t.
ness, at the same stores, where his friend- .
customers may be Supplied with artirl •« j,.
line, Wholesale and.Retail, on reasonable le* •
February 24.
tf
