NV>
r*
»
v»'
. .rw* T
'*'■'51
rr ■<*
*£"i
..f
QA'M'iTE.
'' V V
V
/
<
«/
VOL, l.j
WI LM 1 \ : »./i'Ui\. bA'i U ii ;
V, .lELEJVtî-iLK IG, 1809.
M ». 47
Printed and Published
On Wednesdays and Saturdays
DY JOSEPH JONES,
Vin Market street, a few dooia above the Tî-nkof
Delaware.
CONDITION'S.
I. The Delaware Gazette shall be published
every Wednesday and Saturday, on a large folio
sheet.
II. The price shall be four dollars per annum,
exclusive of postage, payable half-yearly in advance.
III. No subscription will be received for a shorter
period than one year.
IV. Subscribers shall have the vigift of discontinuing
their subscription at the end of a year from the
time of their subscribing, by paying what may be
due, and giving notice of their intention.
*V. Advertisements, not exceeding sixteen lines, will
be inserted four times for one dollar, and for every
subsequent insertion twenty cents—longer ones in
the same proportion ; but a reasonable discount
will be made in favor of » nose who advertise by the
•year, half-year, or quarter.
VI. All articles of a personal or private nature will
he charged as advertisements, and must be paid
for before insertion.
VII. Advertisements, notices, &e. of all rr.
nus
and charitable institutions, within the state of De
laware, shall be conspicuously inserted gratis.
(jjr* The postage must be paid on all letters and
communications addressed to the Editor, through the
medium of the Post-Office, or they will not be re
c«ivcd.
DOCUMENTS,
Which accompanied the Mtssuyc of the President
oj the United Slates.
From Mr. Erskine to Mr. Smith.
Washington, Aug. I t, 1 iiOp.
Sir,
1 have the honor to acknowledge tiie receipt
of your letter of the <)th inst. informing mr
that you had just received a letter from Mr.
Pinkney, inclosing a printed paper, purporting
to he a copy of a dispatch to me from Mr.
Canning, which states, among other things,
• from the report of your conversations with
Mr. Madison, Mr. Gallatin and Me. Smith, it
appears.' _
■'
" 1st. That tft'&iAnipricajBi.-grtVernrfik'nt is
pupated, in tire evttw of his m.rjesty'a. con
senting to withdraw the orders in ciuncil of
January and November 1 807, to withdraw cou
temporatieously on its part, the interdiction of
its liatbors to ships of war, and all non-inter
course and non-importation acts, so far as re
spects Great B'ita'.n, leaving them in Jure-.
with respect to France and the powers w idch
adopt, or set under, lier decrees.
2d. That America is willing to renounce dti
ling tbc present war, the pretension of cany-1
mg on, in time of war, all trade with the ene
mies colonies, from which she was
c.xuut;::!
during peace.
Ily. Great Britain, for the purpose of se
u
curing the operation of the embargo, and tiie
hona JiJe intention of America to prevent lier
citizens from trading with i'rauce and the pow
ers ado; ting and acting tinder the French dc
I créés, is to lie considered as being at liberty to
H capture all such American vessels as may be
■ found alterejiting [to trade] with the ports of
I any of those powers, without wit ch security
■ iur the observance of the embargo, the raising
I it nominally with respect to Great Britain, alone
I would, in fact, ra se it, with respect to all the
I world."
■ The explanations which you request of me
I upon that subject, shall be given with candor—
■ and I will proceed, accordingly, to lay before
■ you, an abstract of the communication w hich I
I laid before i.is majesty's government relative
■ to the unofficial conversations which 1 had held
I with Mr. Madison (then secretary of slate)
I Mr Gailalin, and yourself, at the time, and
■ upon the occasion, alluded to by his majesty's
I secretary of state (Mr. Canning) in that part
■ oi his instructions to me, of which you inform
■ ute, you have received a piinted copy from
I Mr. Pinkney.
■ Upon relet ting to my dispatches, addressed
■ to his majesty's goveininent, of the ad and
■ 'Bit December last, in which these communi
9 rations are tietailed, I conclude tiiat tiie con
■ versations alluded to, must have been held some
■ days previous to that period and were to the
H tollowing elicet—
■ Mr. Aladisnn (then secretary of state) is re
■ presented by me to have urged vatious ar<'u
I ments, tending io prove that the U. S. had
ex
I tried all their efforts to persuade the French
■ government »<> withdraw their unjust restric
■ » on» upon neutral commerce,and that recourse
■ "light have been had to measures of more acti
■ Vl »v and decision against France than mere re
I motistrances, but tiiat in the mean time, Great
■ Britain had issued her orders in council, before
■ it was known whether the United States would
H wgiuesce m the aggressions of France, anil
I '-hei-eiiy rendered it impossible to distinguish
■ "' tween the conduct of the two belligerents,
■ ' V | o hatl equally commuted aggt vssions against
■ U States.
After some observations, Mr. Madison is sta
ted by me, at that time to have added, that as
the world must lie convinced that Ameiica had
in vain taken all the means in her power to ob
tain from Great Britain and Eranee a just at
tention to her rights as a neutral power by re
presentations and remonstrances, that
fit
ie
would be fully justified in having recourse to
hostilities with either hclligeient, and that she
only hesitated to do so Horn the difficulty ot
contending with both —but that she must be
driven even to endeav. r to maintain her rights
against the two greatest powers in the vvo^d—
unless either of them should relax their re
strictions upon neutr .1 commerce—in which
case, the U. S. would at once side with that
power against-rhe other which might commue
Us aggressions.
That every opinion which he entertained re
sp"< tin^ the beat inlc
nia country led
him to wish that a good midi-rsntnding should
take place between Great Biilain end the Unit
ed States, and that bethought that the obvious
advantages which v.-.u,,' thereby resi.it to both
countries were a
stifiicierit j.ledge of the si
uce
lity of his sentiment .
These observations,
sir, ( bv
1-c.vc to rc
nv.uk, were made to me by Mr. MndG ui about
a mont!) after the inteili
nee hurl her n re
ceived in this country of tile rejection by Iris
majesty's govern men. of tiie preq
it inn made
through Mr. Pinkney by the president lor the
t moral of the embargo as respected Great
Bri ain, up n condition that the orders in cmtti
c 1 should be withdrawn as respected the Uni
ted States : and his sentiments were as I con
ceived, expressed to me in older that I might
convey them to his majesty's government, so
as to lead to a reconsideration of the proposi
tion above mentioned with a view to the adjust
ment of the differences upon that subject lie
tween the respective countries. But 1 never
considered that Mr. Madison meant that the
government of tiie U.States would pledge them
selves beyond the proposition respect,lur tiie
embargo, as above stated—because that was the
extent of the power of the president by the
constitution of tiie United States.
I understood, very distinctly that the obser
vations oi the secret..ry ol state were intended
to convey an opinion as to what ought and
would he tiie courra
puiPticd by the United
States, in the event
r*i bis mo'Cbiy's ordern in
î oit" cil b
ng withdraw.;.
ill til,a
and opinions, vou con*«
lilectc-d lroin the tenor of several
furred, a
w lecit i held with you at that pc
con verbal ioii
nod.
With U-spec-' t )
lue second point, as stated
in your letti-r to he contained in a
dispatch
from Mr. Canning,"
1 beg leave to otiei the
following etcpUnuttoii :
in the course of a private interview I had
wr!i Mr. G dlalin, (the secretary of the trea
sury) he intimated that the non-intercourse
ii was then lik-dy to he passed by tiie
Gw t.
congr-ss, might he considered as removing
portant grounds of difference with
two
Vc
Great üt Bain, viz: the non.importation act, as
applicable to her alone, and also the president's
proclama i ,n, whereby the ships of Great I!>-i
lain were excluded fioin the ports of the Uni
te! Stales, while those of France were permit
ted to einer —but that by the non-intercourse
law, both powers w ere placed on the same foot
ing. He d:d not pretend to say that this mea
sure had been taken from any motives of coii
; ess.on to G. Britain; but as. in fact, those
followed, he conceived they
conseci lient
might he e nsidvred as removing the two great
obstacles to a conciliation.
He advaWx-J also to the probability of an
adjustment of another important point in dis
pute between the two counuies, as he said he
knew that it was intended by the United States
to abandon the attempt to carry on a trade with
the colonies of belligerents in time of war,
I
which was not allowed in time of peace, and
to trust lo being permitted by the French to
carry on such trade in peace, so as to entitle
tiisin to a continuance of it in time of war.
As it may be very material to ascertain what
" trade with the colonies of belligerents" was,
in my conception, meant by Mr. Gallatin, as
intended to be abandoned by the United States,
I feel no hesitation in declaring, that 1 suppo
sed he alluded to the trade from the colonies
of the belligerents direct to their mother
country, or to the ports of other belligerents,
because the right of such trade had been
the point in dispute ; whereas, the right
to carry on a trade from the belligerents to
the United States had never been called in
question, and had been recognized by his ma
jesty's supreme court of admiralty ; and the
terms even upon which such colonial produc
tions might be re-exported from the United
States had been formally arranged in a treaty
signed in London, by the ministers plenipoten
tiary of both countries, which was not indeed
ratified by the president of tiie United States ;
but was not objected to as to that article of it
which settled the terms upon which such trade
was to be permitted.
Such was the substance, sir, of the unofficial
conversations which I had held with Mr. Madi
son, Mr. Gallatin and yourself, which 1 did
not consider or represent to his majesty's gov
ernment as intended with any other view than
to endeavor to bring about tiie repeal of the
or bu s in con-cil hr shewing that many of the
wist »des which had stood in the way of an ami
c djle
dj list in cut o! the differences between
the two
comiti es were already removed, and
t! uta f t ■ pro..peer esirted of settling wh it re
maned; since the United States luni exhibited
a détermina
ton to res'st die unjust agg-essions
upoti lier n iili'ui rights, which was all that
v »rear Britain II -,d evt r required ; but I certain
ly never received am- assurances from the A
tUv-ncun qov.Tnmjiif that they would pledge
tbemsd
to ado; t the conditions us prelimin
u cs, nur did I eve: hold out stick an ex. nss.on
io Ins tnjestv's government, having always
spited to them that in the event of his tnajes
tv -, thinking it ja .t or expedient to.canse h'-s
Orders in comteii to be withdrawn that the pro
mit U woo d take off tiie etnLar
as «cspcctfd
, L
ind, leaving it in open
;ii ist France
r.n.
1 the ; owers v. hicii adonlcd,
ir a filed under
her decrees ;
i g to the u'dlronty v hir.h
aocor:
s vested in him at that time by the
\\
c»jn»rcss
tie; U. States
.••d t
■i there v. ;
very rca*
son to expect that a sulisfuctory ariu
Tnieni
iii'ght Ire mu le tiptm the po tits of the
oioniai
fra e which I
it; between
ec. s», ion
countre
A , t > the tirird condition referred 'o by ymt,
sp- c bed in Mr. t'aonu-g's i'u- '.r -ci • os, I have
only to remark, that ! never held any conver
saiioti with tin
members of the goveinmciit
ol the United States,
relative to it, limit :ny
late négociation
or had ever re...
turned tiie
subject to his majesty's government
t having,
for rite first fmin, been pn-9
cd to inv cun
sidération in Mr. Canning's dispa'ch to me of
the 2Jd of January in which that i
sc*;
•tested, and is stated to have been assented to
by Mr. Pinkney.
It would be unavailing, at the p-esent mo
on ol* lilt*
ment, to enter upon an
c.\a;nm j
" prelens ons set forth in Mi. Canning's letter
of instruction ." (which you are pleased to term)
extraordinary.''
1 consider't, however, to he my duty to de
c'ate that, during my neg
citui-m with v„
which leti to the conclusion of tii - pi o- i i uir.l
agreement, I found no reison to bciievc tint
any diilicu'tics would occur in the accompiisli
ment of the two former conditions, so far as it
was in tue power of the presidetr of the United
States to accede to the fust, am' c insistently
rv.tii the explanation I have before given to the
second po.nt: On the contrary I leceivt if agpa
rancen through you, tiiat the presidin' would
(as i'ar as it was in uis power) with the
comp
first condition, anil tiiat there could he no douh.
tliçjt th: congress would think it incumbent up
t the right of the U. States
on them to
against such powers as shouid adopt or act un
der the decrees of France as soon astheir actual
conduct or detenu-nations upon that subject
couid be
s- enained—but th .tin the mean
time, the president hud not the power, and
could not undertake to pledge himself in the
formal mummer reqaired to 'hat effect.
I received airo asnif,,nc<-8 from
, tiiat no
doubt could he reasonably enti ruined that a *u
linfucto y arrangement might be made in a tic:i
the sühn c.t of tit
:nnd condition
«y
po
mentioned in Mr. ti.nniu
instructions accotti
ing to my explanation of it in the for»coiiig part
of this letter, but that it would necessarily f
jt m
an article of a Ire-r-.- in which the various i
tensions of the two col;r.'ricu rhoiiM be
:-lt led.
The third condition yot, errand.-,
V i-l'
tinctfy informed me could not be lecog
,• Nl l >v
the president, but you a■ i: .I wh. t bad
lt
weight in my iniu
that vom vh<i not tcc \
•ny
any great importance fliouiu re at tael
l to ;
1:
a recognit:
; because
it '.Vthilti
■'0 it'iinnp»! nu
that a citizen of the United Mates could prefer a
complaint to his government on account ol lh;
captt re of his vessel while engaged in a trade
absolutely interdicted by lite laws of his touii
tr y*
Under these circumstances, therefore, finding
that I could not obtain the recognitions specified
in Mr. Canning's dispatch ol the 23d of Janua
ry (which formed but une part of his instructions
to me) in the formal manner t equired, I consid
ered that it would be in vain to lay before the
government of the United States the dispatch iu
question, which I waa at ti/ertn to have done in
extenso had I thought proper. But as f had
such strong ground for believing that the object
of his majesty's government could bo attained,
thougn in a different manner, and the spir it, at
least, of my several letters of instructions he ful
ly complied with, I felt a thorough conviction
upon my mind that I should he actii g in con
fmmity with his majesty's wishes; and accord
ingly, concluded the lute provisions! agreemen
on his majesty's behalf with the government of
the U. S.
The disavowal of his majesty is a painful
proof to me that I had formed an erroneous judg
ment of his majesty's views and the intention of
my instructions; and i have most sevetely to
l iment that an act of mine, (though uniment, on
allv) should produce any embarrassments lit the
relations be! ween the two countries.
It is a great consolation to me, however, to per
ceive that measures have been „d ipted by both
governments to prevent any losses and to obvi
ate any inconveniences which might have arisen
to the citizens or sul jects of cither Country from
a reliance on the fulfilment ofthat provisional
agreement ; and 1 cannot but cherish a hope,
that a complete and cordial understanding be
tween the two cuimn'ics may be effected.
I 1 eg leave to . d I tin t it would have given me
great happiness to have contributed to so dcsira
blc an object, and to offer you the assurantes of
the pie.it respect and iriu 1 » consideration with
which I remain, sir, your most obedient htimul*
scivai.t,
D. M. F.ItSKINE.
Aon. R jh-rt Sr/ii.'/t, ere. Ike. £c c,
* uc.
The Sccn-tary of the Trm vni to Mr. Enkinc*
Washington, lj:h Augist, 180 J).
Sir,
I do not believe, that in the can"-' salions we
hive had respecting the piai ticability of no ad
justment ni the tlitf-rtnces between the United
St^-.s and Gieat Britain,
v* e ever have mistin
diMV.oo ! on- anoth-r.
Vet as from Mr. Can
nula's im**. ructions Ltely publ -tied t,y our gjfcv-»
eminent, tt vvoul 1 see n that some op-ri-.m« are
a«ciib.d to several in -inhere of this administrati
on, which they did not entertain, it appears
ttens-aiy to ascertain whether on any point a
misappiehension can have taken plate.
1 will forbear making anv ob-ervadons on
what in ti.e instruction» is called the third con
dui.in, shire it is not asserted that that inadmis
sible proposition u is su •,'.tested at Washington.
the points embraced in Mr. Cam. in- 's first
proposition h.tinc.i the principd topics of our
conversât or.«, relative to the revotât, on of the
orders in council. Yet in the manner in which
tiiat proposition is expressed, it got-« furrhrr than
had beta auggesie.! by the nn nih-'S of »lie a fmi
mslrution, it is siilfi .iently evid-nt from tiie
proceeding" of cong-e-.s, bath iirei-i,ms and sub
sequent hi the imratified agreement of Anti! las*,
that the Unite.I States intended to continue the
re tnettntss on the commercial inter-nurre v ith
Franc.--, while such of her decrees as violated
our neutral rU ht« continued it' forte, aru 1 io re
move those tcstrietion« in tehitioii tiGr-.t Bri
tain, in the event of a r.-vncuLon of tiie orders
But th it st.ue of ihi: g«,
so tur a?
re!alcd to France, was t • resu't from w.-i
mown or nticipatcd by our governtn " t w hen
ti.-y authorized un at rangement ; and t was not
purposed by us that tiie continua
i l. icviursn with Fiance sbon-d he ma--e a con
d don of tii t arrangement. V\ hilstnt) r h ■ t sub
ject, 1 will am! an observation, thou_
Jj'i
n- 1 immediately ecnr.ected will ti e ob
c:l n it*
this letter. I think that tiie object of tied pro.
po.'it , so fat as it agreed vitl. »our previous
undcrsi.amHm.; of the intentions of dus govern
ment, hrs been substantially carried into efto t
on oar ;iart. It is tme that votir oovetmncct
might at the date of the tns'iu■ tint s h ue ex
pected from the inci*-iene proceeding« of con
gress, that Holla (I would he embraced b) the
restrii live kw" of 'he United Suites,
Not only
no »ever w: s the omis-i .n uO ninal, since Ame
lin,-in viss.-ls wers at the time by tlv ,heroes of
t rat country refused admiission into its ports
but un.'ir the same construction of our 'aws by
winch tiie commercial m'erenurse with Iloiland
was pet milted, that with Portugal vvis also rua
» dried ns legal in the event ol that country be
ing occupied by the British troops in the name
of the prince regent.
Jt is therefore principally as respects the sc
con.l condition which re! ccs to the colonial trade
that erroneous inferences might he drawn from
the expressions u,ed in Mr.
instruc
:v
Alii«
;-;h the «uhjet t must have been
nons.
mentiomr! here n-'ident.iily, ir.d only in a tran
sient manner ; as il is one to which i paid p-u
tu.'ul.ir attention, and on which my opinion had
never va it-d, I mink that I can state with pn
Li
«ion in what v!
I have always coLsi
c.
»lt d must h;*ve
if.
1. i never r ; .1«!
r:: roanten-ir**
op m.-.i il
- e Uni!
Sun*.« u •
that it woi.id be n.o!
*r ti
.
'îiat^ver
nient
«.'.îinhtion ol t lie revouad
ifj
ui! . The two subifuts
w
nected, and i am uonii.
■ ! : .11 S'i
Hit
tion was never ^uq^rsied eir .er hy
any member of t
ai!-n.Hi*:t |, :Ufo.i.
.in arrangement cnuM !)'• dlVitcd only •
i n a con'-LÎ'.Tuî
;:t t
[irise that I sec your government n,
oi ly a res stance to the l' itnch vîw rer«, hur t» •*:
übaïuionment uf a branch oi* one commerce, as
»he price of the revocation oi theot»V-*in touo»
oil. This seems to <pve «'i new character to a
uiertflurc which had luMetobirc lr*en r.'j)fcs.*nied
as an at l of retaliation iclucta;.'.!'
:i!, and
li.id been riefcniird solely on
e iht .
supposed acquiescence on thcpait of the United
Slates in the injuiiou
ccs of »P c.t her n.Jiion.
2. In the event of u treaty embracing id! the
points in cfiqiule. and particular!v tii it of im
pressments, without which I trim no treatv v- i'i
ever tike place, it was m/ opinion, au
1 i IP I
have certainly expressed it, that if the ori
jects of difference were arranged, t
L.v
ir.g tiie colonial trade would be easily adiusted.
t hail considered the principles recogr. / ! in a
former correspondence, between Lend Hawke;
bury and Mr. King, on the si hject of the c.-ii-
nial trade, and subsequemly again adopted in
tiie treaty ncgociatcd hy Messrs. Monrce and
Pinkney, as a general basis agreed on underdu
i rent administrations, by both government',
from which neither couid now recede, and s --.
. eptihle only of modification as to detail«. '! i •
instruction« to our ministers in Loudon on l! : :
uhject had also been published and were know
to your government, i therefore '-el'eved i*.v
the United btxtes, iti the event of a tic.
