and äcurce of which was
vety great expenc
of the authors,
not known ; and that some
printers and publishers h id been apprehended
and securer!. He calls on the civil and nvhtaiy
officers, anti all good subjects, to be vig lent in
detecting and securing for punishment, all per
sons guilty in preparing or circulating seditious
papers—and contradicts the accusations which
evil disposed persons have spread against hint
self and the government.
BANK. U. STATES.
Th: following statement is given in the report
of the Secretary of the Treasury , agreeably to the
call of the Senate.
STATEMENT,
Of the capital of the several branches, and of
the bank of the United States, and of the
amount of discounts by the last received re
turns.
Amount of notes dis
counter!.
CAPITA!..
903,859
Boston,
700.000
4,175,374
New York,
! ,800,000
1,349,550
600.000
Baltimore,
485,28.5
200,000
Washington,
880,170
u' 00,000
Norfolk,
fioo.ooo
1,409,91 6
Charleston,
1 054,1 13
Savannah,
500,000
(if 1,517
New Orleans,
3 JO,000
5,300,000
Philadelphia,
Balance due the Bank
in account current
by the offices.
750,000
Capital reserved
3.050,000
4,572,586'
4,700,000
10,000,000
15,587,870
1 , 401 , 617 »
16 , 949,497
• Funded debt.
Estimate of the crpenets and hssis of the Ban/:.
Six per cent on the 17,000,000 dollars, estima
ted as per above, as the amount usally
loaned on interest as per annum.
1 , 020,000
Dividend of 8 13-36 per cent, a
10 , 000,000 actually
year, on
paid to the stockholders, is,
per annum, 836,11!
Undivided surplus on 1
Jan. 1810, 409,410
dollars, divided by 18
years, would becqttal
to an annual divi
22,743
dend of
Leaving for the estima
ted annual amount of
expences and tosses, 11,1,144
1 ,020,000
BRIEF SUMMARYo( Foreign News,
received at Boston ;—New measures were
about to be adopted in Holland, to prevent
commerç ai intercourse with England ; the
French frigate Cannonier is taken, with a
cargo of immense value on board; Bona
parte is actually to be married to the sister
of the Emperor of Russia ; Sourcojf, the
celebrated fortunate privateersman, has
sailed, in a frigate of his own,from St. Ala
loes, for the East-Indies ; the expedition to
the Scheldt is undergoing an investigation
by order of the government; Lord Mel
ville is said to have joined th& Opposition ;
the John Adams arrived safe at Amster
dam, where she landed her money) receiv
ed her dispatches, and sailed again as soon
as possible for England, where she barely
touched, and proceeded for tlie U. S.—the
Duke of Kent Packet, has arrived in 24
days from N. York ; according to a report
presented to Parliament, the British Ex
mi)li
ports during the j ear 1808, were
ons, and 1809 thirty nine millions ; in Par
liament, Feb. 8th, papers were called for
»lift
respecting the late négociation vvt
mer
ica, and granted ; at the levee, on the same
day the American minister was present ;
his name was mentioned the first of six oth
ers in the London papers ; a messenger ar
rived in England on the 11th Feb with dis
patches for Mr. Pinkney ; in the Court ol
Admiralty the ship Eutaw, Graut, has been
condemned ; and the case of the Betsey,
Fitder.orderedto lie over for further proof.
A Utter from Lisbon, dated Feb. 17, re
ceived in Philadelphia, mentions that the
British minister at Lisbon had been super
ceded ; and that he left that port on the lGth
Feb. fur England, from whence he was to
proceed in a diplomatic character to the
IJ. Stales.
Robbery and Murder .—The body of a
Mr. Alexander Erskitte, was lately taken
»nt of the Appomattox, at Petergbugh, Va.
'The jury were of pinion, that the deceased
had been beaten, robbed, and thrown
into
the river, by some unknown hand.
ELEGANT EXTRACT.—A nervous wri
t'r in an (ultliffs to the republicans of Rhode
Eland, thus pathetically and elegantly describes
the past and recent conduct of G. Britain to
'V.iliib us.
" Alin! lime lus nnl vet tk-iwdislied Ihe fortifi
cations with which the English roughenrcl the
country to enslave you-—nor those the Americans
rained for their defence ; their irilf-roundcd sum
mits still appear ill every quartrr, amidst plains—
on the top« of mountains. The traveller need
not search for the ditch which served t > encom
pass them; it is still open under his feet. Scat
tered ruins of houses laid waste, which the fire
had partly respected, in order to leave monu
ments of British fury, are still to be found.—
Men still exist, who can say, here a ferocious
Englishman slaughtered my father—there my
wife tore my bleeding daughter from the hands
of an unbridled Englishman. Alas ! the sul
diers, who fell under the swords of the Britons,
are not yet reduced to dust—the laborer, in turn
ing up his fields, still draws from the bosom of
the earth, their whitened bones—while the
ploughman, with tears of sorrow and anguish,
still recollects, that his fi*!d, now covered with
rich harvest, has been moistened with American
blood."
" Clrtr territorial jurisdiction has been viola
ted— the hospitality of our ports and harbours,
abused—our cifxens murdered, whilst in the
peaceable pursuit of domestic concerns—our na
tional Hag insulted—the blood of our seamen
wantonly shed, and :hc perpetrators of those
horrible acts, have been secured anil protected
from punishment, by mock tr ials, or in noun in
stance*, by an exemption from trial; and, as a
farther reward for sin li deeds, have enjoyed the
smiles, anil received PROMOTION from that
very GOVERNMENT, under wlin«r- AU
THORITY they acted, while it hypocritically
prepared to disavow the deed."
Massachusetts Election .—So far as we can judge
from the Boston papers received by yesterday's marl,
the result of this important trial of principle, will
meet the most sanguine hopes of true republicanism.
The Palladium, considered as high federal autliorily,
gives the votes of 382 towns to be—
Tor Gerry
44,001
Core
41,925
I. caving a republican majority of 3,676.
Tlrus have all the hopes of the Essex Jun'a be"n
defeated. Pichering and the other friends of G-eit
Britain, •• who has given us no cause of complaint,'*
arc, in the words of Diktiert, " blown lip. spurred in
the kidr.ics, and completely non-plussed !"
Ftnlinand FIT .—The latest accounts from France
state, that this monarch, depos-d by his
wc.ik
ness and folly, is extremely ill, and two physicians
from Paris were sent to attend him." We hope the
fate of Pichcgru does not await the unfortunate prince.
Two long for the honor of human nature and for the
character of a great couqueior, has a species of croup,
riHtitc, itiiiGi arrnrk* «luise
Ln
stand in the way of Bonaparte's ambition, and inva
riably terminates in suffocation. We think the minions
of the emperor would not hesitite to inflict this dis
ease, especially when their master, like Macbeth, is
" so far crept in blood, that to recede is worse titan to
advance.'*
Of the olJ king anti queen nf Spain, the foreign
papers have, fur a long time been silent. Perhaps a
quietus lias been kindly administered to them ,- and they
now rest, notwithstanding their royalty, "where the
rude forefathers of the hamlet lay." What a lesson
for regal pride—fur earthly dignity ! " 1 tell thee tvha:
Horatio, a man may fish with a •worm, that hath fed
on a ling ; and eat of the fish that was caught with
that worm."
Royal protest !—Louis XVIII, from his retirement
in Buckinghamshire« England, has " as a king pro
tested against the violence offered to the sacred person
of Gustavus IV. of Sweden, because this outrage is a
fresh application of principles destructive of all au
thority, subversive of all social order." Ir ir. a charm
ing thing to he a monarch, even in idea. There are
many kings in Bedlam who has as much real power,
and a great deal more ideal greatness than Louis 18
can rationally exercise.
On Friday arrived at Philadelphia, and fired a sa
lute, the United States brig Syren from a cruize.
A letter received by the Portia of the 26th of Jan
a'l the property seized in Denmark that
uary says,
was proved to be bona fide American, has been re
stored.**
DIED;—At Sandy Hill, Charleston,
tlie 16th
inst, Gen. William Washington, which added
the name of that gallant veteran to the melancholy
list of deceased American worthies. His health had
been bad for some years, but during the last six months
he sustained a complication of disorders, become too
powerful for longer resistance—his moral and reli
gious impressions, the one emanating frrm a ivelj
turned mind, the other the result of reading and re.
flection, disposed him to view the spproaches of death
itii
composure and equarimity truly characteristic.
By Yesterday's Eastern Mail.
WORCESTER. (MASS.) APRIL II.
Triumph of Truth !—The second of A
pril, 1810, will he a memorable æra in the
annals of Massachusetts ; on that day the
voice of the people sounded in awf«l majes
ty ; it has consigned the son of a tory to the
walks of private life, and elevated a distin
guished worthy of the Revolution to the
Chief Magistracy of Massachusetts,
On
this auspicious event we tender our most
hearty congratulations to the friends ol
me nation/ t. i ninyt: t'ior. m mcli <>f tin- U
States.
"I il« v will h juice with us that the
reign ofdr'usion is terminated, that the de
signs of a Northern C mLderacy are frus
trated.
f he late all-important election was a fair
trial of principle and of the strength of par
To ill's both the friends and enemies
ties.
of the genetal government appealed. By
their votes on this occasion the majority of
the independent electors have manifested
their entire approbation of the course pur
ste <1 by the President , thev have given
their striction to that dignified impartiality
with which our (ortign affairs have been
conducted, they have expressed their de
testation of the tut warrantable proceed» gs
of the State government, they have pro
nounced the sentence of infamy upon the
authors of the late British Resolutions, they
have resolved to strengthen the hands of
the national rulers. Faction is inched hum
bled. New. England, with the exception
of Connecticut, that standing monument of
the inveteracy of prejuce, joins with the
n
ther members of the Union in giving stead
fastness to the principles of Democracy.
The result of the late struggle verifies
our predictions while it surpasses our an
ticipa tions. We calculated upon the electi
on of GERRY anti GRAY, but vve did not
expect so glorious a majority as bv present
appearances will signalize their triumph.
Nat Ægis .
BOSTON, A Pair. 10.
Extract of a letter, dated l'aris, Jan. 15, 1810.
" I received vout letter by the John Adams, dated
Silt ult. I am sorry to find so many shipments from
the Uni e* States to Spain, Ita'y and the North, and
not a government vessel in Europe to warn them of
the danger. In Spain an order lias lately been given
(or radier sent from here) to seize and confiscate as
goor t-r /e, all American vessels and their cargoes,
and thev a-e to lie sold immediately. At Naples a
.similar order has been given, ami the Hercules of Sa*
lent ard cargo were advertised for sale three days af
ttr, being tlte first notice of such an Intention."
Even since the intelligence of Mr. Jackson's dis
missal in America, American airairs have put on a
more gloomy aspect in France 1 The French govern
mem appear to be pi tying into the hands of the Bri
bo'lt de er
tislt, with respect to America. They
mined to keep us in tlie hack ground as b.-g as
I
hie, by following up each others prohibits and curtail
j
obtain from G. B.
ing our trade, France intends
;
lay be in abi
whatever of their manufactures they
lute want of. in exchange for .lie prrducts of her
Licences have already been granted to import into
France certain articles, Ike. fee.
The Quebec paper of Mardi 22. mentions the arrest
of Mr Charles Le Francois, edit
of a French paper,
called I.*» Canadian, and Dr. liianslier, Mr. Iiniard,
and Mr. Taschereau accused of traitorous practir.es.
The Montreal paper of the 26 ult.
n:*rof Pierre Laforce and Francois Com tv.- il charged
with seditious practices. All the accused persons up.
pear to be French
The election of a new assembly for L
'v.' T Canada,
took place
the 25th ult. We have
>t heard uf the
reall't.
l he noted Stephen Burroughs has been committed
Canada.
pnso
The papers respecting the American ne
g -dation have been laid before bo'h housrs
of the British Parliament. 'The anti-minis
teiialistj expressed a hope when they called
for the papers, of being able to shew th.»
the settlement was in substance conforma
ble to the views of the Ministers, i be lac
ter deny that any such inference can be
drawn from any of the papers.
SPOTTED FEVER.
From Worcester, April 4 —''The vi
rulence of this disease scents to have
disappeared ; or, on account ol the more
intimate acquaintance id the Faculty with
the nature of it, thev completely subject it
to the power of medicine. 48 rases have
occurred in Leicester ; »1 which 27 recov
ered ; t.e remainder are eonvalsctnt and it
is expected all will recuirr. A t ote 1 1 < ■ ni
Dr. A. Flint, dated Monday, contains
this information, and adds,—"'No new ca e
to day." At Oakham, no new case occurred
for the last seven days ; and those who had
been afflicted, are recovering. A hunt 1«
have happened in this town, but the pati
ents are all doing well, and tlie alarm on
account of this epidemic, has very much
In Jaffraij (N. II.) this let er
subsi 'icd
has carried off three persons in one family.
Three deaths at Aturbridge."
Philadelphia, April 13.
Bv the ship South Carolina,cap' tin Png',
from Cadiz, advice is received ih.it » i: -ge
supply of water had been intro», c ti imo
that city—the regular garrison ol which ex
ceeded twenty thousand men, in addition
to which British transports with troop, ot:
boaid amounting to 5000, had arrived and
were arriving,
The F.ench in an attempt to enter, by a
pa rticular pass, into the isle oi Leon, had
been repulsed with great loss.
The French in the vicinity of Cadiz were
said to be about 20,000—and in the whele l
m o . to e * i A < lahlsi f - > .trin >nt t > SO,T5G0.
Cants Ai- Cobb,of the brig Helen.arrived
at Alexandria on Monday t ist from Madei
ra,'informs, that he spoke a ship from Ca
diz bound to Madeira, hrving on board the
American consul who had left Cadiz on his
way to Philadelphia, in consequence of the
near approach of t he French to that place.
of
ÎK'ÿ"Several lists of Directors proposed
for the New Tank, were yesterday handed
for publication. We decidedly excluded
the whole, under an impression that the de
cisi'tn of the meeting of last evening (which,
tvas not ascertained when the Gazette was
ready for press) would fix on the charac
ter ; and that, after that decision, it would
be an act of supererogation in us to inter
fere.
Bank oj Wilmington [f Brandywine.
~ï~'HF. capital stock of the Bank of Wil
JL mingion and Brandywine living sub
scribed for, the undersigned
commissions s
give notice, that a meeting of the stock
nolders will lie field lor the purpose rf
electing nine directors for said bank, at the
Town-Hall, on Saturday the 14th inst. at 3
o'clock, T. M.
JOHN WAY,
HOIST. HAMILTON,
DANIEL LOW HER,
JAMES JEFFRIES,
JOHN TOR BERT.
April 4, 1810.
4t
C5" No person at the first election;
for Directors can vote by proxy.
White-Hall Farm,
of
St. Georges Hundred, Nero Castle County ,
and state of Delaware.
I
as
r |pHE subscriber offers a! private sale, the
jä above farm, with the valuable marsh there
a
to belonging, situate upon the St. Augustine ant!
Silver Run ctciks, making in the whole 450
acres.
1' or fer tdity of soil, h-atity of situation, elegance
of improveiDCi t, ami healthiness, this farm stands
unrivalled in th : s state. It lies 8 miles horn the
a
watersofthe Chesapeake, 3 from the river Dela
4 from Cantwell's Bridge, 13 miles from
ware,
Wilmington, (and near the state road leading 1 ,
er
I'.) ami tr. . '.«• v : tity of the village known by
I ttie name 01 me i't , It lias been cultivai- i
j for eighteen years past upon the clover ar.tl p!. -
B.
; ter pla«', an I lor that p.- iot! 6:1 or 70 : cres
'•■er have been mowed annually.
I' 1
Tl'Ore who are inclined to purchase may, bv
applying on the farm, view the premises, ami
know ti c t-vnis ei».er by applying to himself of
his son William C, Frazer, residin'' at NeW
Castle.
WILLIAM FRAZER.
White Il.dl Farm, Ap.il II, 1810.
tf
It the farm is not fold at private sale, it will btf
s 1 ' on tlie premises an l'ridsy the first day < t.
June. ]t will command annua,Iv to a certainty
fri'tri 1
- - 1 ' tit**
Vv. F.
A Vendue of Muvtu.iics — also of
I
REAL ESTATE.
VTfTII.L be sold, on the 1 4in day of ApriL
V V »'ft. at tlie late dwelling house uf Jene.
Higgins, in Rid Lion Hundred,
All his moveables left,among which.
S'r valuable Ilot te-, foui choice Cmvs witlv
or eng Gabes ! logs that will weigh 400H'S cadi
at k I mg time ; a variety of Farming. Hous
holdar.d k teben utensils, \\ heat in the ground*
anil a larip q anthy superior Bacon.
His Damascus Property, with the
7-Iols, just neatly repaired ..n.l put in complete
order, will be sold, on the fOth day of June, at
i'ubi't: Sale, on the piendsy , unless sold at pri
vate ".tie before that time.
Tit's property is an object, ami may be had »
great bargain, on easy terms.
ANTHONY DIGGINGS,
Agent.
April 7.
Please to Notice.
TI 1 *-' co-partnership of Aaron &r Defer Paulson
hein» <l»i»sol* ed by mutual cunsent on the 25.h
in. stau* —aU perrons h-dchfed to the said concern
ate recuestec! to make irrrnedfate payment, and
those having demands wiïl please to prêtent them
for seulement to either of the s'lbsrriLfrs*
AARON PAULSON,
PKc Kii PAULSON.
AARON PA U I SON,
Having taken the remaining stuck of the late
conctrn, lias now on hand and intends keeping »
1 as"crttncrt c f dry goods, suitable for the!
[urgent at.J iiptnoacliinj' -. casi'n, wh'rh he will
s -II on low terms. He returns thanks to hi««
friends and oublie f.» their j>a«t favors am!
elicits a continuance of their regtotn.
irch 30, 1310.
in'iiut'i';
Six Cents Reuard.
the subscriber, in Wilmington*
AN away fr<*
JL\ au apprentice Boy.
tm.d
l
' THOMAS DAVIS.
about eighteen years of np/—had on when he went
white hat and biue rcund-a-bout jacket, &
a WHY
pair »»f grey trowsers and laced boots, an apprentice*
to the Shoe-Making business Whosoever bring*
him back shall have tlieah we reward, but no charge*
TtfEOPHILUS JUNES,
paid
'I
l
March l2,
{
