Printed and Published
3d«
On Wednesdays and Saturdays
BY JOSEPH JONES,
In Market street, a few doors above the B.nkof
Delaware.
to
• CONDITIONS.
.I. The Delaware Gazette shall be published
ry
every Wednesday and Saturday, on a large Folio
in
sheet.
J£. The price shall be four dollars per annum,
the
exclusive of postage, payable half-yearly in advance.
III. No subscription will bo received for a shorter
in
period than one year.
ÎV. Subscribers shall have the rigl*. of discontinuing
in
their subscription at the end of a year from the
time of their subscribing, by paying what may be
•ing notice of their intention.
due, and
In
V. Advertisement*, not exceeding sixteen lit
will
be inserted four times for one dollar, and for every
•subsequent insertion twenty cents—longer (.ties in
the same proportion i but a reasonable discount
will be made in favor of those who advertise by the
■year, half-year, or quarter.
VI. Ail articles of a personal or private nature will
be charged as advertisements, and must be paid
for before insertion.
VII. Advertisements, notices, fee. of all religious
and charitable institutions, within the state of De
lavvare, shall be conspicuously inserted gratis.
all letters and
(Tj- The postage must be paid
communications addressed to the Editor, through the
medium of the Post-Office, or they will not be re
ce» v ed.
DOCUMENTS,
Which accompanied ike Missaac of (he President
of the United States»
Mr. Smith to Mr. Pinkney.
Department of stale, Nov. 23, 180 ').
Sir—
My letters in the correspondence with Mr.
Jackson, already transmitted to yon, sufficient
lyevince the disappointment that was felt, on
finding that he had not been charged to make
to this government either the frank explana
tions or the liberal propositions which the oc
casion manifestly required. Instead of this ob
vious course of proceeding, it was in the outset
perceived, that his object was to bring us to re
sume the subjects of the arrangement of April
in a way, tint would imply that we were aware
that the arrangement was not binding on his
government because made with knowledge on
our part that Mr. Erskine had no authority to
make it, and thus to convert the responsibility
.of his government for the disavowal into a re
proach on this for its conduct in the transaction
disavowed. In the first instance it was deem
ed best rather to repel his observations argu
mentatively than to meet them as an offensive
insinuation. This forbearance had not the ex
pected effect of restraining him from a repeti
tion of the offence. And even on his further
insinuations nothing more was done than to
premonish him of ttie inadmissibility of so in
decorous a course of proceeding. This also
being without effect, nothing remained but the
step finally taken. And there was the less he
sitation in shutting the door to further oppor
tunities for insulting insinuations, as the dis
closures he had made anti the spirit of his dis
cussions had so entirely shut it to the hope of
ttny favorable result from his mission.
I will not dwell on his reluctance to give up
the uncertainties of verbal for the precision of
written discussion ; nor on the manner or the
time of his denial that he had given any room
at all for a statement which in order r.o guard
against the misconceptions incident to verbal
conferences, I had placed before him in wri
ting, with a request that he would point out
any inaccuracies, and to which he did not Own
object otherwise than by intimating that he
could not have made the statement with the par
ticular view which set mal to he supposed. Nor
will I dwell on the various instances irt which
partial or inconsistent views ol'lhe subject have
taken place of its real merits. But it may not
be amiss to make some observations on the
correspondence as it relates to the justification
of hit government in having disavowed the act
of his predecessor.
With respect to the orders in council, the
ground of the disavowal is the difference between
the arrangement and the printed dispatch of
Mr. Canning to Mr. Erskine of the 23d Janu
ary. According to this dispatch then the ar
rangement failed in three points.
1st. In not relinquishing the trade of the
United States with enemies colonies.
With respect to this point it is not necessary
at this time to discuss the right of that trade.
It is sufficient to remark, 1st. that as the trade
Is admitted to have become, in the view of G.
Britain, of little practical importance, why has
it been made a ground of Hie disavowal, and,
«specially, as important considerations only
could upon principles of public law have justi
fied a measure of so serious a character ? 2d.
that as the colonial trade is ft subject no wise
concerned either with the ordets in council or
with the affair of. the Chesapeake, why has it
been permitted to frustrate an arrangement re
■x
THE DELAWARE. GAZETTE.
VOL, l.j
WILMINGTON. WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13
NO. 46
1809.
Î
Ming to those subjects; and to those only ■
3d« that as this condition is allowed to have ori
ginate! in
supposition, that it would be agree
able to the American government, why has it
been persisted in after the error was made
known by the representation of Mr. Kvskiivt
to hts government that neither this nor the
other conditions of dispatch of the 23d Janua
ry were attainable here ?
Sd. AmÄer pfcint in the dispatch, and not
in the arrangement, is that the British navy
might capture our trade to ports prohibited by
the United States.
This condition appears to have had its origin
in a mistake of your meaning in a conversation
with Mr. Canning, as noted by yourself, and
in an inference thence deduced os to the dis
position of this government. But this double
mistake must have been brought to light in
tituc to have heen corrected in the new mission.
In tit ging it Mr. Canning lus taken a ground,
forbidden by those principles of decorum,
which regulate and mark the proceedings of
governments towads each other. In his dis
patch the condition is stated to be for the pur
pose of securing the bona fide intention «of
America to prevent her citizens from trading
with France and certain other powers, in
other words, to secure a pledge to that effect
against the mala fide intention of the United
States. And this dispatch too was authorised
robe communicated in extenso to tiie govern
ment of which such language was used.—
Might it not have been reasonably expected
that such a condition and such observations
would at least on such an occasion have been
given up by a government willing to smooth
the way to an amicable settlement of existing
differences?
In his zeal to vindicate his government, Mr.
Jackson too has attempted a gloss on this most
extraordinary idea of calling on a foreign sov
ereignty, not indeed to make laws for us, but
what is equivalent in principle, to supply a
supposed inability to execute them. He calls
such an interposition of his government, not
an execution of the law of congress, but of a
compact binding as a public law on both parties
and which both would have a common interest
in seeing duly executed. On his own princi
ples there ought to he a reciprocity not only in
the execution of the compact, but in the obli
gation and interest resulting from it. Besides
where there is a reciprocity in compacts be
tween nations touching attributes of sovereign
ty, there is always as much of sovereignty
gained as is parted with, so'that there is no loss
nor indignity on either side.
3. The remaining point of the dispatch, not
secured by the arrangement, is that which re
secured by the arrangement, is that which re
to
quired that whilst our prohibitory laws should
he repealed as to Great Britain, they should he
to
left in force as to France and the powers adopt
ing or acting under her decrees.
This is the condition which alone properly
belongs to the subject, and it is to be remarked
in the first place that the British project, of
which this condition makes a part, contempla
ted two things in their nature incompatible;—
one a repeal of the prohibitory acts os to Great
Britain, without waiting for the conclusion of a
regular treaty, the other a pledge or engagement
for their continuance as to tiie other powers.—
Now, from the nature of our constitution, which
in this particular ought to have been attended to
by the British government, it is manifest that the
executive authority could have given no such
pledge, that the continuance ol the prohibitory
acts being a subject of legislative consideration,
could not have been provided for until the meet
ing of tite legislature, and that the condition
could not therelore but have failed, either in the
immediate renewal of commerce with Great
Britain, or in the immediate engagement that it
should not he renewed with France. The Bri
tish government ought to have acquiesced in,
and indeed ought to have been satisfied with the
attainment of the important object of an imme
diate repeal of our prohibitory laws and with
the consideration that the other object, not im
mediately attainable, was unnecessary at the
time, because the prohibition as to France was
then in force, and because there was every rea
son to infer not only from this fact, but from the
spirit of the communications made from time to
time and from the overtures before submitted to
the British government, that without a repeal of
the French decrees, our prohibitory laws would
be conttnued in force against France, and espe.
dally in the case of a repeal of the British or
ders, which would necessarily render a continu
of tiie French decrees doubly obnoxious.
ance
But if on this head doubts could have been
entertained, instead of rejecting the arrange
ment, ought not the repealing act on our part to
have been met with a suspension at least of the
orders in council, until it could have been seen
whether the non-intercourse law would or would
not have been continued against France. Such
a suspension could not bave given, in any point
of view, more advantage to the United States
than was given to Great Britain by the repeal,
which bad taken place on their part.
If this reasonable cotitse could not have been
substituted for the disavowal, why was not a
final disavowal suspended with a proposition that
the arrangement would be executed by Great
Britain, in the event of a compliance on the part
of the United States with the condition requi
red as to France ?
I *tn not unaware, yon may be told, that the
1
«on-intercourse law of the United States did n':t
extend to. Holland, though so intimately con
nected with France, and so subservient to her
ns
decrees against neutral commerce.
It would not be improper on this occasion to
been
observe, that this objection can he the less urged
by Great Britain, as she has herself never in her
nor,
allcdged retaliations adhered to the principle on
to
which they were founded.
Thus site has from the date of them, until
true
very lately, directed them against the American
trade even to Russia; although Russia had never
a
adopted the French decrees, nor otherwise vio
lated her neutral trade with Great Britain. So
in her order of April last, she has discriminated
to
not only between the countries devoted to
Prance by the tics of blood, and other powers,
hut between Holland, Westphalia and Naples,
in enforcing hen prohibitory order against the
first, and not against the two last. Whilst
therefore she finds it expedient to make these
4th
distinctions, she ought to presume-that we too
he
may perceive equal propriety in the distinctions
we have made.
But it may be of move importance here to
compare the British order in council of April
last with the arrangement of April, made by
not
Mr. Etskine. It will thence be seen how little
the
is the real difference, and how trivial it is when j
compared to the extensive end serious conse
ill
quences of the disavowal.
Under the order in council of April, all the
ports uf Europe except France, including tite
kingdoms of Italy and Holland with their de
pendencies, arc opcnetl to our commerce.
Under the arrangement of April, combined
ed
with our act of non-intercourse, ail the putts of
Europe, except France and Iter dependencies,
including the kingdom of Italy, would have
been opened to our commerce.
The difference then is reduced merely to Hol
is
land, and that nation is reduced to the difference
between a direct trade to the ports of Holland
and an indirect trade to Holland, through the
neighboring ports of Tonningen, Hamburgh,
Bremen and Emden.
he
Now, as the iniuring of the enemies of Great
Britain is the only avowed object of her inter
dicting order agairst our trade, let a computation
be made of the effect which this difference be
tween the order in cot ncil and the arrangement
could possibly have in producing such an inju
ry. And then let the question be candidly an
swered whether, laying aside ail considérations
of right and justice, sufficient inducements
in
could have been found in that result for rejecting
the arrangement, and for producing the c
querit embarrassments, as well to Gicat Britain
siti
as to the United States.
If it be necessary, as Mr. Jackson has stated,
to set bounds to a spirit of encroachment and
universal dominion, which would bind all tilings
to its own standard, anil to falsify by honorable
and manly resistance an annunciation that all
Europe is submitting by degrees, the effort must
be feeble indeed which is to be found irt the in
convenience accruing to the formidable toe front
the operation of this order in council, and espe
cially when we combine with it the strange
phenomenon of substituting for the lawful trade
phenomenon of substituting for the lawful trade
of the United States, a trade of British subjects,
contrary to the laws of the adverse party, ant!
amounting without a special license in the eye
of British law to high treason.
Thus much for the orders in council. What
has taken place with respect to the case of the
Chesapeake will equally engage your attention.
You will perceive that throughout the early
stages of the correspondence, this ease wa9 im
properly confounded with, in others improperly
separated from, that of the orders in council ;
and particularly that pains had been taken by
Mr, Jackson to substitute verbal and vague ob
servations on the disavowal of this part' of the
arrangement for an explicit and formal explana
tion, such as was obviously due.
It will be
seen also that when finally brought to the point,
he referred for a justification of the disavowal to
the departure of Mr. Erskine from his instruc
tions without shewing what those instructions
were, and to allusions to an expression in the
arrangement without giving to his meaning the
distinctness prerequisite to a just reply.
It appears, however, that he lays great stress
on the proposal enclosed in his letter of the27th
October, as at once indicating the departure of
Mr. Erskine from his instructions, ar.d as con
taining the conditions on the basis of which he
was ready to enter on an adjustment. And
from a note from the setre'ury of the British
legation, it appears that he lias complained of
not having received an answer to this proposal,
as he had before complained that no answer had
heen given to hts verbal disclosures on this head
in his interviews with me.
With respect to his intimations in conversati
on, as they were preceded by no proper assign
ment of the reasons for not tiavmg executed the
original adjustment, it cannot be necessary to
remark that no such notice, as he wished to ob
tain, could with any sort of propriety have been
taken of them.
With respect to his written projects, it will
suffice to remark :
1st. That beside his reluctant and indistinct
explanation of the disavowal of the original ad
justment, he did not present his proposal until
he had made such progress in his offensive situ
ation as made it proper to await the issue of the
reply about to be given to it, and that this issue
had necessarily put a stop to further comutuniea
1 dons.
2d!y. That although he had given us to un«
derstand that the ordinary credentials, such alone
ns he had delivered, could not bind his govern
ment in such a ca~-r, his proposal had neither
been preceded by nor accompanied with the
St
bibition of other commission or full powei
nor, indeed, has he. ever given sufficient reason
to suppose that he had any such full power to
It is
exhib t in relation to this particular case,
true that ir. his letter of the 23d October, lie has
stated an author.tv eventually (o conclude,
a convention between the t,vo countries.-—
Without adverting to the ambiguity of the term
cvoilua/lji with the mark of emphasis attached
to it, and to other uncertainties in the pltraseo
iogy, it is clear that the authority referred t°,
whatever it may he, is derived from instructions
subject lo ids men discretion : and not from a
patent commission, such as might be properly
railed for. It is true also that in his letter of the
4th of November, subsequent to this proposal,
he says he was possessed uf a full power in due
form lor the expies-, purpose of concluding a
treaty or convention.
But it still remains uncertain, whether by the
treaty or convention to which it related,
was
not meant an eventual or provisional treaty on
the general relations between the two countries
j without any reference to cite case of the Chesa
peake. Certain it is mat the British government
ill former like cases, as will be seen by tiie ad
justment of that pint of the affair at Nootka
Sound, which is analogous to this case, did not
consider any such distinct power as necessary I
nor is there the slightest ground for supposing
that Mr. Erskinc, although confessedly instruct
ed to adjust this very cats of iii£ Chesapeake,
was furnished with any authority distinct from.
his credential letter. That Mr. Jack: on has any
such commission is the less to be supposed, as it
is but barely possible, that possessing it, he
should not on eome occasion or in some form,
have used a language susceptible of no possible
doubt on this point.
But proceeding to the proposal itself, it is to
he kept in mind that the conditions forming its
basis, are the very conditions for the deviating
from which Mr. Erskine's adjustment was disa
vowed. Mr. Jackson, if not on others, is on
titis point explicit. " I now add (says he) that
the deviation consisted in not recording in
the official document signed here the abroga
tion of the president's proc!-matiou of the 2d
July, 180,", a3 well as the two reserves specified
in the piper of metricranda enclosed in my offi
cial letter to you of the 27th ult."
Considering then the conditions in the propo
siti as an ultimatum, in what tight are we eom
peiied to view such an attempt to repair the
outrage committed on the frigate Chesapeake,
and to heal the disappointment produced by a
disavowal of a previous equitable reparation ?
It is impossible on such an occasion not to
recall the circumstances which constituted the
character of tiie outrage to which such an ulti
matum is now applied. A national ship pro
ceeding on an important service, was watched
by a superior naval force enjoying at the same
time the hospitality of our ports, was followed
and scarcely out of our waters when she was,
after an insulting summons, attacked in a hos
tile manner ; and tite ship so injured as to re
quire expensive repairs, the expedition frustra
ted, a number of tite crew killed and wounded,
several carried into captivity, and one of them
put to death, under a military sentence. The
three seamen, though American citizens, and
therefore on every supposition detained as
wrongfully as the ship would have detained,
have notwithstanding remained in captivity be
tween two and three years; and, it may he ad
ded, after it has long ceased to be denied that
they are American citizens.
Under these circumstances we are cafGJ
upon to ransom the <
'es.
1st. By acknowledging that a precautionary
proclamation, justified by events preceding the
outrage, by the outrage.itself and by what im
mediately followed it, was unjustifiable, and
that a repeal of it was properly a condition pre
cedent to a reparation for the outrage. And
this requisition is repeated, too, after such oil
acknowledgement had been uniformly asserted
by this government to be utterly inadmissible,
and, what is particularly rcmarkaUe, at a time
when the proclamarion, as is well understood,
was no longer in force. The occasion obvious
ly invited a silent assumption of the existing
fact, and this would have excluded the difficul
ty heretofore found tobe insuperable.
2d. By throwing into complete oblivion the
conductof the officer answerable for the mur
derous transaction, with a knowledge too on
our part, that instead of being punished or
even brought to trial, he has ljéçn honoured by
his government with a new and'inure important
command.
3d. By admitting a right or. the part of Great
Britain to claim a discharge from our service
of deserters generally, and particularly of her
natural born subjects, without excepting such
as had been naturalized in due form under the
laws of the United Slates.
it has not been explained, whether it was
meant, as the universality of the te. m " deser
ter" would import, to include American citi
zens who might have left the British service.
But what possible consideration could have in
duced the British government to expect that
the United States could admit a principle, that,
would deprive our naturalized citizens of the
