HJIU» rOTT»«
intelligence.
BOSTON, Maucii V.
LATEST FROM SPAIN.
Yesterday arrived »t Manchester, the brig
Alonzo, captain Burges, from Malaga, ( apt.
,
B. had the goodness to trans mit lis Gibraltar
papers of Jan. 6, Malaga papers to Jan. 17,
bis marine intelligence and the following
,
EXTRACT OF LCTTbRS.
" Mu In fra, Jan. 20.
" Among the lower classes of pedple the
greatest enthusiasm continues to p evail, and
great saciificcs will be made to prevent our be
lt will not be surprising should
ing overrun,
they lise in masse ; and as the roads in gene
ral arc bad, and of difficult access, the enemy
will be materially annoyed. If great reinforce
ments arrive from France, in the long run we
may be subjugated ; but the French govern
ment will never find a friend in this country in
the present generation."
" Malaga, Jan. 22.
" The members who are to compose the
cortes of the nation have been diesen, in this
No
province we have made a good selection,
person of tide, nor any one holding a public
office has been chosen."
" P. S. VVe are just informed that gen. Lace
has taken 9bu Frenchmen ol a corps w ho at
tempted to pass the Siéra Morena."
" Malaga, Jan. 23.
" Two officers of the Volontaire frigate, ar
rived here last evening horn Gibraltar, and
mention, that they carried from Mahon four
French deputies that had been to see lord Col
lingwpod, and landed them on the coast of
France near Marseilles, in the night time.—
That the object of their mission was a perfect
secret, hut that it was generally believed they
had carried ptoposuls from the south of France
and part of Italy, to declare themselves inde
pendent, and soli< ited they should he consider
ed neutrals by the English."
The brig Somers, capt. Fletcher, has arrived
at Kennebuck from St. Bartholomews. He
informs that he read London papers of Jan. 23,
which stated that the French decrees were re
pealed, and that the orders in council would be
revoked. If capt. F. saw a series of papers it
might not be . n a paragraph in the latest that
he founded his opinion. Although we hope
the edicts arc rescinded, we fear the idea has
been produced by the decree of Jan. 3.
Phii.adelkiiia, March 28. •
Monday-hying the birth day ot the Em-'
Ueror of Rossra, the Russian Envoy gave a
party, and bad,the front of his dwelling il
luminated by-a*- transparency representing
the cities of'St.'Petersburg and Archangel,
and an American vessel in full sail, the
crown and • the
whole surmounted by a
letters A-I. Some citizens stopping
to
look at t^e transparency took up
a notion
that the putt ng of thé crown over the Ame
rican ship and coioTtrs was improper; this
notion ripened into an opinion that it was
intended as an insult, and the ferment be
came general. About this point of time
a young man, an officer in the U. S. ser
vice, came up and imbibing all the indig
nation of those around him, he discharged
two pistol balls through the transparency.
He was apprehended this morning, and
bro't before Alderman Kepple, who on
motion of the District Attorney, hound the
officer over, himself in 3000 dollars, and
two sureties in 1500 dollars each. In the
course of the examination, the officer with
characteristic boldness and strong feeling,
declared, that he thought it his duty as an
American officer to bring down all crowns.
-
From the Genius of Liberty.
Great and noble actions ought to he known
and recorded.
The following is an extract of a letter from
a gentleman near Princeton, N. J. to
his friend at Lofig-Hill, dated Feb. 23th
1310.
'"An interresting incident occurred near
Princeton some weeks ago. 'i he cold Sa
turday a number of students were skating
on Scuddtr's mill-pond ; one ol them nam
ed Hone, about 1G years old, fell into the
water, whtre it was from 10 to 12 feet
deep. In struggling to get out, be broke
the ice fur some distance rouud, but did
not succeed, and became at last so exhaust
ed and overcome that he could not see.
The students in the mean time, ran back
wards and forwards clamouring, but no
one ventured to the ai l of his perishing
An apprentice hoy, however, a
liieiul.
bnut 14 tears old,approached so near Hone
th it he put one end ol a stick,with which he
had been playing ball on the ice, into his
l .md. With the aid of this stick he drew
li'..: upon the ice, and though sensible of
his ,»v. n danger, and shedding tears, lie per
sil, d till lie driiv Hone, so far forward
I
that the end of his skate caught on the edge
t.l the ice. Hone then -.sked the boy to let
him draw back and extricate his skate ;
h did so, and both at last reached a place
ol safety. Hone when sufficiently recover
id, put his hand into his pocket and offert ti
the boy two dollars which he had with him. j
The generous bov would not take it , say- |
itlg he would have done the same fur anv I
J . . . « t rr I
person in the same situation. He offered h
him afterwards 20 dollars ; llte bov said
be did not want his money. Hone's father
came on, and offered to buy the boys time,
, , ' I
but the sensible Utile fellow said he wished
to learn his trade. Finally, Mr. Hone,
the father, invested, for the boy, 500 dol
, , , , I , • ,
lars, and the students made him up about
two hundred more. It is said the hoy's
father was a man of property in Nc w
York ; but became insolvent, died, and left
bis children so destitute, that this son was
hound to Mr. Horner to learn the tanner's
business."
XI)e d&asetle.
Wilmington , April 4, 1810.
LATEST FROM SPAIN.
Captain Taylor, of the ship Caledonia, arrived
at Philadelphia oil Monday, from Cadiz, states,
that the French army, alter passing the Sierra
Morena, had taken Seville—drove ihe whole
countrv, ai masse, before them into Cadiz—cap
tured Port Maria, the watering place, opposite
the city of Cadiz, where they were fortifying
themselves. They had been fired upon constant
ly from o British two decker and 4o gun boats,
but without success. A flag had been sent into
Cadiz to demand its surrender to its lawful sove
reign and friend, king Joseph—the answer re
turned was, that the loyal people of Cadiz, knew
no king but Ferdinand.
•
The junta were at the head of Cadiz Bay, at a
small place railed lliea. The French and Span
ish men of war him their sails bent, and were
ready for sea, to the number of 17. The Biitisli
admiral, Purvis, with about 12 ships of war,
was at Cadiz, and appeared to have the principal
direction. Cadiz being so much crowded with
people front the country. Water was very scat ce,
and all 'business at a stand.
'Fhc ship Philadelphia, brig Smilax and schoo
ner Five Brothers, had just artived from Phila
delphia.
IMPOR TANT^r IF TRUE !
The following information (says the Bos
ton Gazette) from London to a gentleman
ol this town, is handed us by one, who is
incapable of knowingly abusing the public
confidence for a single moment. It is un
questionably derived Ii4>ai an authentic
source ; and our readers, (vtj think, may
perfectly rely on its truth :
?
'' In a formal communication from Lord
Wellesley to Mr. Pinkney, the conduct of
bur Executive and proceedings of Congress
subsequent to the late négociations, Are cen
sured in the most unequivocal manner.
It is asserted by the British Cabinet,that
Mr. Jackson had behaved only as his duty
required ; that the charge against him is
ty
absolutely groundless ; and that he, as well
as his king and country, are treated with
an unprecedented rudeness and grossness
by the U. States.
" Lord Wellesley, beginning with the
offer to renew Mr. Jay's treaty, recites a
series of acts, proving the sincere and uni
form desire of G. Britain to meet the U.
States on iair and friendly conditions, all
which have been met with a contrary spirit
by the government of the United States ;
and, he says, that now it is the belief of the
British cabinet, that every overture at con
ciliation, on their part, must be unavailing,
because our government is resolved that no
adjustment of differences shall be made—
and he adds, that although they are dispos
ed to receive propositions from ui, yet it
cannot be concealed, that none can at pres
ent he expected.
Lord Wellesley took this occasion to
, I
remark, that the British government are
fully sensible of the great part that is assign
ed them to act in the present eventful peri
od of the world ; and to declare, explicitly,
that all the means which God has gracious,
ly given them, shall he used so far as is ne
cessary,to resist the establishment of a des
potism, which would be more terrible than
any yet known in the history of nations."
[That the above should be the sentiments of the
British government towards us, we by no means are
disposed to doubt, even after the disposition expressed
by Lord Wellesley to Mr. Pinkney. But as this arti
cle never burst upon the world until the eve of the
Massachusetts election, we think it aukwardly squints
towards a vankee fabrication.]
GAZ.
Macon's bill—dead as a door nail.
On Saturday last in the house of représenta,
tivc U. 8. this unfortunate binding, after being
kicked,cuffed, blanket tossed and drawn through
the horse ponds of both houses, at length received
the strobe of grace. Notwithstanding all the ill
treatment to which it had been heretofore sub
jected, it sustained sixty-six blowson the cranium
before it gave t p the ghost ! Its relation Aon.
Intercourse, has been dragged upon die JJ„or,
and hitched upon the " horns" of John Ran
dolph, who it is supposed will continue to worry
it until it breathes out finis ! Then disband the
army—then sell out the gun-boats and frigates—
and— then commence war with— torpedoes —and
then blow our enemies to the moon ! That's all.
Wilmington and Bi antlvwinc Bank
On Monday last, agreeably to ti< tice, the Suliscr,|i
11011 Books wore opened at 'lie 1 .iwu-Hal! m ties Ho
roii^n,when the shares were taken *it> with an aviditv
h ; e ,, ly to it» projectors, and evincive of pub
lio spirit to promote our meal interests. When the
I
boobs w.-re closed at son-set, il appeared that 37T2
'" u ™ re • subscr j' K ' tl b ' r ' ' vbicb *; d " 212 ""f u ' d "
the numoer required But, tve understand, that as
five hundred shares are reserved to he disposed of as
the d o ctors, with ihc consent of the stockholders,
ma.'- see proper it is not yet d. elded- whether our of
tliai number, the -ubscrihns may not be allowed to
retain aM their sh
'Erratum.— in lust
>f " Brutus.'* conclu
ding paragraph, second Iiiii
ins ead ol tonner icgislu
turcs, read the present, v«.t.
itaiDS of tpe Hinton.
[ By Authority.]
AN ACT
For altering the time for holding the District Court
in Ohio.
B E it enacted by the Senate andIIou.se of
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress assembled, That the
sessions of the • district tourt for the dis
trict of Ohio, by law appointed to he hold
en at Chilicothe, in the said district, on the
first Mondays in February, June and Oc
tober, shall hereafter be holden at Chiltco*
the on the second Mondays of September
and January annually.
Sec. 2, And be it further enacted-, That
all writs, process, and recognizes which
may have been wade returnable, and all
• tits, causes, process and proceedings,
which may have been continued to the first
Monday of June next, shall he and hereby
are made returnable and continued over to
the session of said court, which shall he
holden on the second Monday of Septem
ber next, shall be as valid and proceeded on
in the same manner, at said September ses
sion of said court, as if such writs, process,
recognizances, suits, causes and proceed
ings had been originally made returnable
to, anti continued to said September suasi
on of said court.
J. B. Varnum.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
George Chiton, jr
Vice President of the United Stater,, and
President ot the Senate.
March 26 1810.
Approved.
JAMES MADISON.
AN ACT
To prevent the issuing of sea letters except to certain
vessels.
B E it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress assembled, That from
and after the thirteenth ol June next, no
sea letter or other document certifying or
proving any ship or vessel to he the proper
ty ol any citizen or citizens of the United
States, shall he issued except to ships or
vessels duly registered, or enrolled and li
cenced at ships or vessels of the United
States, or to vessels which at that time shall
he wholly owned by citizens of the United
States, furnished with or entitled to sea let
ters or other custom house documents, any
law or laws heretofore passed to the con
tra ry notwithstanding : Provided neverthe
less, That no sea-letter shall be issued to
any vessel which shall not at this time be
furnished or entitled to a sea-letter, unless
such vessel shall return to some port or
place in the United States or territories
thereof on or before the said thirtieth day
of June next : Provided nevertheless . 1 hat
no sea-letter or other document, certifying
or proving any ship or vessel to be the pro
perty of a citizen or citizens of the United
States, shall be issued to any vessi 1 now a
broad, which shall not at this time he fur
nished with a sea-letter, unless such vessel
shall arrive at some port or place in the U
nited States or territories thereof, on or be
fore the said thirtieth day of June next;
and provided that nothing herein contained
shall he construed to operate against any
such vessel or vessels that now are, or may
be prior to the said thirtieth of June detain
ed abroad by the auihoiity of any foreign
power.
J. B. Varnum,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Albert Gallatin
President of the Senate, pro tern.
March 26. 1810.
Approved,
JAMES MADISON.
Bank of IVilmington if Brandywine .
r j"M1K capital stock of tire Bank
I vVit
JL mington and Brandywine being sab
scribed for, the undersigned commissioners
give notice, that a meeting ot the stock
holders will be held for the purpose of
electing nine directors for said bank, at the
Town-Hall, on Saturday the 14th inst.at 3
o'clock, P. M.
JOHN WAY,
HOBT. HAMILTON
DANIEL I.OWBF.Ii,
JAMES JEFFRIES,
JOHN TORBKRT.
April 4, 1810,
4t
IFiltn : ngt ):i Collect •.
8 I'll Hi Trultees of the Wilminpton College,
M take pleafure in announcing to a )ihe• .1
public, ttiut the Latin department of this mil *
tution is permanently ell.ibliflied under tin.
immediate care of Mr. Jofeph Downing, who
will alfo teach the higher branches of Mathc
matipks. 'J"he healthy situation of Wilming
ton, its character fur morality, the goodnefs
of markets, and cheapnefs of boarding. ; com
bined with the well eftabiiflted reputation of
Mr. Downing as a fuccef ful teacher, all concur
to recommend this fem nary to the attention of
parents and guardians, to whole care the edu
cation and improvement of youth may he en
truffid—the indices inform the public with
rqtial confidence that the Knglifh fcliool is in a
fl'Mirifhing (late under tlie iuperintrndance tf
Mr, K K. Dare—and the young ladies def an -
ment is again permanently revived tinder the
pare of rhe liev. Mr. Henderlbn wliofe refpec
tability and acknowledged merit are a birr
pledge of his difpofition and ability to improve
the young ladies committed to li scare.
ROUT. HAMILTON
r>
Kill-V. A. SMITH,
JOHN HUM 1 * VY.
WILLIAM PRYCK.
Apri l 4, 1310.
tf
Please to Notice
The co-partnership of Aaron Si Peter Paulson
being dissolved by mutual consent on the 25tb
s indebted to the said concern
instant
are requested to make immediate payment, and
those having demands will please to present them
for settlement to either of the subscribers.
AARON PAULSON,
PETER PAULSON.
AARON PAULSON,
Having taken the remaining stock of the late
concern, has now on hand and intends keeping a
generul assortment of dry goods, suitable for the
present and approaching season, which he will
sell on hnv terms. lie returns thanks to his
friends and the public for their past favors and
solicits a continuance of their custom.
Wilmington, March 30,1310.
John Dixon
TTAVING succeeded Warners £r? Tor
te .L bert in the grocery business, at the
stores lately occupied by them on Market
street wharf; offers for sale on the
most
moderate terms,(or cash or the usual credit,
A General Assortment of Groceries.
And hopes by a strict attention to busi
ness, to merit a share of the public patron
age.
The Packet, Sloop Hope, Capt.
Milner, with good accommodations for
passengers, will ply between this Town 8c
Philadelphia as usual—all freight sent by
said packet will be carefully attended to.
Wilmington, July 8, 1800.
BREWING.
T HF,* ubscriber having commented Brewing
for the season, begs leave to it.form his
Town and Country Customers that he has
STRONG <$• TABLE BEER of an excellent
quality constantly on hand, which he will dis
pose of at the usual prices. All orders will be
promptly attended to.
Joseph B. Shipley,
JF/fmi/iit >/?» Nov. I, 18(B).
Patent Washing Machines.
rjM\K subscriber respectfully informs hi*
S friends and the public in general, that lie
has, some time ago, purchased an exclusive right
of making and vending Paient Washing Machine#
thrmighcyjt the hundreds of Brandywine and
Christiana, in New-Castle county, a number of'
which machines he has already made, which
have been trieil by divers persons and highly ap
proved of, as they save a great part ofthe labour
of washing in the usual way, and are less it juri
ons to clothes. He will continue to make and
have a supply of them on hand, which he will
sell on reasonable terms to such as favour hin;,
with their custom ; and will also sell to any
per
son a right to make and use them within Ur-.
die hundreds aforesaid.
ABRAM G EST.
Wilmington, Jan. 21, I 80U.
tf
Dissolution ot Partnership.
THE partnership of JBrarlun Sr Hire is th.;
T
dissolved by mutual consent. All person -,
having demands against said firm are requested,
to present them ; and those indebted are desire,V.
to make payment to either of the subscribers.
Thomas Bradun,
Washington Rice.
Wilmington, Feb. 20, 1810. 0(i tf
WASH1NGTON RICE
ESFECTFULLY informs the old
R
cus
tomers of Bradutt Sc Rice, arc] the pub!
generally, that he lias purchased Ihr- stock of ti-,-:
said firm, and will continue the Grocery bn- -
ness, at the same stores, where his friends to
customers may be supplied with articles in i t
line, Wholesale and Retail, on reasonable t<
r I ; : .
Fehvuarv 24.
tf
Horse liills ?
Struck off at an hour's notice, at the Office of
G-jiette. •jj'Elejant Hure« figures.
